Good morning, Whitworth. This time of year is the most special to me. Each September, I grow downright giddy with excitement in anticipation of the upcoming academic year. This is my 35th fall semester to start a school year as either a student or a faculty member. On Saturday morning of this week, my eyes opened at about 3:30 a.m., and my mind began to race as I thought of all of the families who would be bringing students to Whitworth to make our campus their new home. I couldn't wait to see all of the new faces, and to experience the exhilaration associated with matriculating a new class of Whitworth freshmen. By the way, is the Class of 2014 in the house? Of course, as I lay there awake early Saturday morning, I was also concerned with pulling off a theatrically sound portrayal of Iron Man in the welcome skit that evening. I think it was intentional that I wasn't introduced to Dayna Coleman until after I signed my contract.

Opening convocations, in all their splendor and pageantry of colors, sights and sounds, are wonderful celebrations of community and purpose. As we begin Whitworth University's 121st academic year, it is appropriate and important that we come together as one community, united in common purpose, pursuing a shared and courageous mission. Thank you for participating in today's opening celebration. A new president is given a few coins of change that she or he can spend coming in the door. I was happy to spend one of my precious coins in calling for Whitworth to move opening convocation from its customary and cozy location in Cowles Auditorium to the fieldhouse so that we would have space to include everyone in our community in this important time together. By ensuring that this celebration can accommodate all faculty, staff, and students, we give a significant nod to inclusiveness, community, and academic ritual. These are important themes for any institution of higher education to honor.

Of course, this is also my first opening convocation as Whitworth's 18th president. For the first time this morning, I have donned the presidential regalia and the ceremonial chain of office (or as it's known in my house, "the presidential bling"). In addition to making me look like a walking billboard for the university, this outfit reminds me of the important and sacred responsibilities I now hold, and of the long line of faithful leaders I now join. You see, the president's ceremonial chain of office is adorned with the names and dates of service of each of the university's 17 previous presidents. It is a reminder to me that I am humbly called at this time in Whitworth's history to serve as your president, and that my work with all of you will build upon the faithful and tireless efforts of so many who have come before me – and not just previous presidents, but Whitworth's long line of faculty, staff, and students – now alumni – who have given their lives to service to this wonderful place. It is also an important reminder to me, and indeed to us all, that we are entrusted to carry out Whitworth's mission here on campus for only a brief moment in the institution's life. By God's grace, Whitworth has endured through times of both prosperity and need since its founding in 1890. By God's grace, Whitworth will be faithfully living out its noble mission for many generations after you and I depart this place. My name, and yours, will be added to the long line of Whitworthians who have contributed to the life of this institution. Let's not ever forget that we are a part of something that is much bigger than any one of us – any president, any incoming class (even the Class of 2014), or any group of faculty and staff. We serve an enduring institution.

There is one name on this chain of office that I should specifically mention at the outset of my presidential tenure: President Emeritus Bill Robinson. As a newcomer to this campus and as someone who is still trying to get my head around the distinctive qualities and ethos of the institution, it is so evident to me that Bill's fingerprints are all over this campus. Thank God. In Bill's 17 years of service, he led our university through times of unprecedented growth and prosperity. There are numerous accolades we could lay at Bill's feet, but I believe his most lasting mark on this institution is our sense of self. If a university has a "self," we know it. The clarity with which Whitworthians articulate our mission of mind and heart is truly amazing. That is Bill's legacy. Although we must always be diligent to ask the hard questions about who we are, and who we serve, my sense is that, as an institution, we have the luxury of being in the position to embrace our well-articulated and broadly shared sense of mission, and to focus our energy and time instead on activities and conversations that ask how we can leverage and extend our mission into an exciting and bold vision for this university. So let me use this time today, at the outset of my time of leadership, to acknowledge that I am standing on tall shoulders (or as some might say, trying to fill some big sneakers). I am grateful to Bill and Bonnie not only for their years of service and sacrifice for Whitworth, but also for their friendship and warm embrace of Julie, Zach, Lauren, Chloe, and me.

Finally, before moving on with our topic for today's program, I want to say a very personal and special thank you to the Whitworth community. The warm and loving embrace that my family and I have received over these past months of transition has been overwhelming. Words simply cannot describe the gratitude that Julie, the kids, and I feel for your grace-filled welcome into this community. Julie is here this morning, and she joins me in saying "thank you." We pray that our service and love for this institution will come close to matching that which you have shown us. Thank you for that important and sustaining gift.

Back in April, after the board made its decision to appoint me president, literally as I was walking out of the board meeting, the topic of my inauguration came up. It was my intuition then, and my firm resolve today, to elevate our inaugural festivities in mid-October, not as an opportunity to celebrate an individual (that would be a coronation, not an inauguration), but as an opportunity to celebrate Whitworth. In my opinion, there is perhaps no better moment for an institution like ours to celebrate its rich heritage, its place in today's larger conversations, and its bright future. Our time in October should be all about Whitworth.

Thanks to the leadership of the Inauguration Committee, we have a compelling theme for the inaugural week, and even, I propose, a theme for the entire year: Celebrating a Community of Courage. I couldn't be more pleased with the committee's choice. Even for me, as a relative newcomer, this theme of courage resonates so deeply with my initial impressions of our community – impressions that have only been solidified as I have come to know our institution better. So as we go about the important programming for academics and student life this year, I humbly ask that all of us make a commitment to explore this theme of courage in all that we do and plan this year. Let's press ourselves not only to celebrate our courageous community, but also to be courageous.

In my remarks today, and on October 15 during the inaugural ceremony, I will address this theme of courageousness from two different angles. Today, my plan is to concentrate on Whitworth's courageous mission – our collective understandings of educating the mind and heart, encouraging curiosity and conviction, and walking the narrow ridge between institutions on one side who see no place for faith in the pursuit of truth, and those on the other side who stifle questions and conversations in a fearful effort to protect truth. How do these three important expressions of the distinctive paradox at the heart of Whitworth's mission play out in our everyday life as a Christian institution of higher learning? On October 15, I will frame what I hope will be important ideas around Whitworth's courageous vision; that is, what we aspire to be as a leader among institutions of higher learning that proclaim the name of Jesus Christ and that embrace, in all aspects, what it means to be a university. I will begin to lay out how we will chart that course into the next decades of the 21st century.

Today's scripture passage that Josh read from the second chapter of Philippians resonates with me, as perhaps it does with many of you, for several reasons. In his letter to the church at Philippi, Paul (writing in chains from Rome) exhorts his readers to take on the attitude, or (in some translations) the mind, of Christ Jesus. That attitude, that mind, is characterized by Paul to be considerate of others, lacking "selfish ambition or vain conceit." The mind of Christ is described as taking on the ultimate expression of humility – in Jesus' case, leaving the majesty of his divine nature to take on human nature, and not only that but the humble nature of a servant. For only in that form could Jesus, God incarnate, win victory over sin, and through His life, death, and resurrection, restore our relationship with God.

For me, personally, this message resonates because, well, let's face it, being a university president can be a pretty heady thing. It's a great job. Any university president who says otherwise is lying, or isn't doing it right. You'll never hear me complain. Sure, there are the long days, difficult decisions, moments of tragedy that send shock waves through our community, but most days are filled with opportunities to be a champion for our students, faculty and staff, academic programs, alumni, and the civic community. I get to wear the crimson and black every day, although I only bring out the "bling" on special occasions. But at the end of the day, like all of you, I am called to lower myself and exalt others, to be a servant, even as I lead. If my days aren't filled with opportunities to elevate others before myself, opportunities to use the influence of my office to empower the work of others, then I'm failing. I'm failing you, our community, and I'm failing God. In your own areas of leadership and influence, many of you are thinking, even now, of ways that you are called to take on the humility of Christ in the process of serving others. Thank you for that commitment.

But being a university is also a pretty heady thing. Perhaps there is no more potentially elitist institution in our society than the academy. Degrees, academic pedigrees, tenure, publication records, teaching awards, the number of velvet stripes on the sleeve – these are the things that often define inclusion in academic communities, or more accurately, that mark the exclusion of others. The academy is often said to be among the most liberal of institutions in America. That may or may not be true as it relates to political ideologies, I suppose, but as it relates to the willingness to adapt and change, in my opinion, the academy is among the most conservative institutions – outside of the church, of course – in our society.

But Whitworth knows this, and although the institution would certainly never claim perfection on this point, we seem to understand the concept of making the academic life more accessible, less elusive, and more inclusive. Professors and staff members here don't allow titles, or the lack thereof, to keep them from interacting together for the good of our students. Students at Whitworth have extraordinary access to their instructors, often spending hours in faculty members' offices or around coffee tables, or in the labs, discussing their lives and our society's biggest challenges. This relative informality and access opens opportunities for relationship and learning. Forrest Baird's willingness to play the mad scientist in the orientation skit on Saturday didn't just reflect his hunger to pursue an acting career frustrated by his quest to prove that Plato was indeed smarter than Aristotle. It also reflects his desire to minimize the perceived barriers and distance between himself and the students he has dedicated his life to serving. This campus knows that the best learning occurs in the context of relationship. I love that. Paul exhorts his readers in Philippi to take on the humility of Christ, just as Christ modeled humility to the world. We can surely come down from our lofty ivory towers protected by status, reputation, and power to interact with our students and community, when Christ came down eagerly from His heavenly throne to be with us.

But even more important, and crucial to our examination of Whitworth's courageous mission, the concept of humility has weaved its way into our fabric of learning and life on this campus. You see, one of the values that allow our campus to walk the ridge between curiosity and conviction, to balance truth and grace, and to be faithful to an education of mind and heart, is our willingness to say the following words: "We don't know," or "We have more to learn". When religious and political fundamentalism boasts of easy certainty, when civil discourse is modeled nightly in one-minute diatribes that yield lots of flames but no light, and when too many Americans, frustrated by the noise and complexity around society's most pressing issues, choose just to disengage, Whitworth stands boldly and courageously in the gap. Unlike some Christian schools that populate one side of the ridge that Whitworth navigates, we acknowledge that many of our society's most fundamental questions don't have easy and certain answers. Rather than seeking easy answers, we invite tougher questions, and then provide venues for healthy, respectful, and vigorous debate. Only in bright light, which requires a commitment to understanding the facts and their context, and in robust discourse, can truth be revealed. Humility as we search for answers, we pray, will always be a cornerstone of our community at Whitworth. That's the mind in the paradox that is "mind and heart." That's the grace in "grace and truth." That's the curiosity in "curiosity and conviction." May we always seek the attitude of Christ as we pursue the life of the mind, as we nurture curiosity, and as we live grace-filled lives that love across our differences.

But what about the heart, the truth, the conviction? When relativism dismisses the very notion of moral conviction, Whitworth insists on a place for transcendent truth. That is also a courageous place to be in higher education, and, unfortunately, it's a place where there is less company to keep these days. Whitworth's commitment to the centrality of Christ is what keeps us sure-footed on the ridge, and not among the scores of colleges and universities lining up along one side of the slippery slope – institutions that have jettisoned their Christian missions in favor of, as they would see it, academic reputation, political expedience, or an easier "sell" in an increasingly pluralistic society.

In Paul's letter to the Philippians, he calls the church to find encouragement from being united in Christ. Having been comforted by Christ's love, and having found unity and fellowship with the Holy Spirit, Paul encourages the church to become like-minded, pursuing a common purpose of expressing Christ's love and grace to a world in deep need. For all of its 120-year history, Whitworth's mission has been to prepare its students to "honor God, follow Christ, and serve humanity." That is our purpose; that is our mission. It is to that noble calling that we rally together here at Whitworth. A university formed in the Presbyterian and Reformed theological traditions, but also purposefully evangelical and ecumenical in its identity, Whitworth finds the integration of Christian faith and learning to be a compelling and unifying feature of our community. We find immense value when we examine our disciplines and areas of study through the lens of our theological and biblical worldview. It is exactly this kind of examination that inspires Kerry Breno, of our chemistry faculty, to work with her students to develop innovative techniques for industries engaged in chemical processes to minimize the harm they cause to God's creation. Work like Kerry's helps us dismiss the notion that our commitments to the centrality of Christ and the authority of scripture weaken our place among centers of thinking and dialogue. We courageously subscribe to the Reformed theological view that all truth is God's truth, and that we should honor that truth, whether it is revealed to us through an act of human discovery, or through divine revelation. We boldly search for truth wherever that journey may take us, even to the limits of our understanding of God, because we are confident that God will meet us there. We courageously embrace Christ as we embrace his world.

Make no mistake, students: You have not chosen the easiest path. The journey through Whitworth takes you along a precarious ridge with matchless views but with clear challenges. It takes courage to navigate this intellectually and spiritually challenging terrain, but know that our faculty and staff are at your side. It takes courage to expose your most deeply held convictions to scrutiny by others, much less yourself, but know that critical thinking and engaging the broadest spectrum of ideas can be sharpening stones rather than stumbling blocks to faith. It takes courage to pursue a vocation to change the world and not just your own place in it, but know that you follow in the footsteps of generations of Whitworth alumni whose minds and hearts have been forged for great things – the greatness of mustard seeds, and even pine cones.

Students, faculty and staff of Whitworth University, may God bless you, and may God in Christ give you great courage to find and follow the path that has been laid before each of you. Amen.


Thank you, Andy, for that warm and generous introduction, and to all of you for that wonderful reception. When I was asked by the inaugural committee whom I would choose to give my formal introduction to my new community here at Whitworth, I didn't hesitate to suggest my great friend and mentor, Samford University President Andy Westmoreland. Andy and his wife, Jeanna (who is also here today), are inspirations to Julie and me as they model great leadership and humble service at Samford. Their wise counsel was invaluable to us as we began to discern our calling to Whitworth earlier this year, and Andy and Jeanna could not have been more supportive of our decision to move to Spokane, even though that meant our departure from the Samford community, a community that my family and I love and respect very deeply. I have been blessed to serve with and under a number of great leaders in higher education, but I can think of none from whom I have learned more, or whom I respect as profoundly as I do Andy Westmoreland. Thank you, Andy, for your friendship, and thank you for all you have done and will continue to do for the cause of Christian higher education in the U.S. and around the world.

There are many others here today who have been instrumental in making this celebration so meaningful. Certainly, our ceremony today, along with all of the other great events of this week, have enriched and enlivened our community in many important ways. My special thanks to the inauguration committee, whose members have worked tirelessly to call our community to a common theme of courageousness and whose thoughtful work could be seen in all aspects of our week-long celebration and especially in this ceremony. My sincere thanks also extend to the participants in today's ceremony, from our international students who marched into the fieldhouse carrying the flags of their home countries, to our student musicians, vocalists, and faculty directors of the Whitworth Wind Symphony and Whitworth Choir, to faculty members Karen Peterson Finch, for her lovely invocation; Larry Burnley, for his powerful reading of scripture; and Laurie Lamon for her poetry, which added beauty, grace, and reverence to our proceedings. Thanks also to those of you who have brought greetings from the university's important and diverse constituencies; your welcome and encouragement mean a great deal to me.

Let me also express my profound gratitude to Whitworth board chair Walt Oliver, to former Whitworth presidents Bob Mounce, Art De Jong, and Bill Robinson, and to former Whitworth professor and interim president Phil Eaton, who now serves as Seattle Pacific University's president. Your presence with us today gives testimony to the important and enduring ways you have served this institution, and to the lasting legacies we inherit and now uphold – legacies that are only stronger because of your faithful stewardship. I humbly stand on your shoulders. And B-Rob, I love you, brother. This community loves you. Thanks to you and Bonnie for all you mean to Julie and me, for the amazing impact you have had on this place, and for the incredible grace with which you have passed the torch of leadership (and the presidential bling, which I must say is much heavier than I would have expected it to be).

Finally, let me offer a special word of welcome and thanks to my family. These are the people who really know me: my dreams and aspirations, my weaknesses and faults, my quirks and idiosyncrasies, and they still love me. I would not be standing here today without them and their investments of time, sacrifice, and love into my life. I'd like to introduce my family and ask them to stand: George and CJ Taylor, from Salado, Texas; Larry and Bonny Dearing, from Monument, Colorado ; Ken Martin and Tom Cole, from Manor, Texas ; Eric and Kelly Dearing, from Boston, Massachusetts; and, though they're not physically with us here today, but are here with us in spirit, Tom and Kim Noone, from Atlanta, Georgia. Please welcome these beloved members of my family. I love and cherish each of you – thanks for being here. And last, but certainly not least, Julie, Zach, Lauren, and Chloe, would you all please stand and let us honor you? Words cannot express my love for each of you and the inspiration you give me each day, nor my gratitude for your courage and faithfulness to follow God's calling on your lives and for our family. I love you dearly. Thanks for being great Whitworth Pirates! And on behalf of my family, let me offer our profound thanks to all of you who have made our transition to Whitworth and to Spokane so affirming and smooth. The warmth and grace with which you have accepted us is truly amazing and speaks volumes about the character of this community. Thank you.

***************
Fellow Whitworth University trustees; presidents Mounce, De Jong, and Robinson; elected representatives; presidents and dignitaries from other colleges, universities, and academic associations; Whitworth alumni here in Spokane and across the globe; other vital community members; Whitworth faculty, staff, and students; family and dear friends: It is with great excitement and anticipation that I humbly but resolutely accept the call to serve as Whitworth University's 18th president. I pledge to serve tirelessly this institution and its many constituencies and, by God's grace, to uphold its unique mission of providing Whitworth's diverse student body an education of mind and heart as we together seek to honor God, follow Christ, and serve humanity.

Whitworth's enduring mission to provide an education of mind and heart has given life and purpose to this institution since its humble beginnings in the spring of 1890 in Sumner, Washington. Earlier, in 1853, pioneering Presbyterian theologian and preacher George Whitworth traveled from the relative safety and familiarity of the Midwest to the rough and rugged, but promising Pacific Northwest in the hopes of forming a Presbyterian institution of higher education that would pursue "the learning and culture of heart and mind that make the finished scholar." George Whitworth had to wait more than 30 years to realize that dream, but after founding some 20 Presbyterian churches, performing various roles in the Washington territorial government, and serving two terms as president of the newly established University of Washington, Reverend Whitworth finally saw his dream come to life when he established an institution that would be, at once, denominational – in that it served the interests of the Presbyterian church – and intentionally non-sectarian, in that it opened its doors then, as it does so eagerly today, to "all lovers of truth and learning."

George Whitworth and the many faithful leaders who followed him could not have known that Whitworth College would persevere, ever committed to its founding mission, for the next 120 years, through times of both great need and relative prosperity; through moves to Tacoma in 1899, then to Spokane in 1914; through a campus closure due to declining enrollments and the onset of World War I; and through the following decade, during which Whitworth graduated only 76 students. The latter part of the 20th century ushered in social and political changes that challenged Whitworth's – and, indeed, our society's – understandings of justice, poverty, race and gender equality, and human rights. These pressures caused our campus community, like so many others during that time, to ask itself how to live out ever more completely and consistently its noble mission in the service of others.

While remaining faithful to its enduring mind-and-heart mission, Whitworth has changed dramatically in 120 years. Few would have predicted in 1928, when the university boasted only 55 enrolled undergraduate students, that Whitworth would grow to its present size of almost 2,600 undergraduates, and a total population of nearly 3,000 students. And no student in 1891 who enjoyed courses in "elocution" or "railroad curves" would have known that Whitworth students today would be stretched and challenged by courses in women's and gender studies or engineering physics. Those at Whitworth in the 1940s who had the courage to enroll Japanese Americans would surely be heartened to know that at the dawn of the 21st century, nearly 14% of our students come from traditionally underrepresented ethnic populations. How could those who served so diligently on our campus for so many years know that with the formal addition of schools of education and business, evening programs for working adults, and graduate programs in education, business, and theology, Whitworth College would change its name in 2007 to reflect the comprehensive university it had already become? And even graduates from the early part of this present decade marvel at the new facilities and campus improvements that adorn our beautiful grounds -- additions like the Hello Walk, new residential halls like Duvall and Boppell, and of course the new Robinson Science Hall, set to open for the start of the 2011-12 academic year. Indeed, Whitworth College, now Whitworth University, has grown, prospered, and changed to meet the needs of its students, the needs of the community it calls home, and the needs of our global community.

Today, on October 15, 2010, 120 years after its founding, and by God's abundant grace, Whitworth is in a position of great strength – benefitting tremendously from the strong reputations of its faculty and students, the excellence of its academic programs, the beauty and function of its campus facilities, the successes of its graduates, and its financial stability even in the midst of the economic uncertainty that grips our country. All of these attributes are important contributors to Whitworth's endurance in a race that has seen many colleges and universities fall short of the longevity and success that Whitworth now enjoys. I don't want to minimize these, but at the same time I would like to elevate a more transcendent characteristic that is the foundation and animating force behind all of the university's achievements. That transcendent characteristic, which distinguishes Whitworth from other institutions of higher learning, is Whitworth's noble and courageous mission.

Many of you heard me speak several weeks ago at our opening convocation about Whitworth's courageous mission, and about my understanding of our mission's impact upon all that we do on this campus. That mission – one that in many ways seems paradoxical – elevates ideals that the world often pits against one another as being mutually exclusive: mind and heart; curiosity and conviction; grace and truth; responsibility and compassion. Whitworth's commitment, as Bill Robinson has so eloquently framed it, to walk the "narrow ridge" between these seemingly competing ideas is what has defined our purpose and community since 1890, what gives form and expression to our educational activities today, and what will ensure Whitworth's vital place in the landscape of American higher education in the future.

Whitworth walks a ridge that separates, on one side, those faith-based institutions that stifle some questions and conversations (perhaps in an effort to protect truth), and on the other side, institutions that see no place for faith in the pursuit of truth. Navigating this precarious ridge creates a palpable tension on our campus, in our community, and among our diverse constituencies. The tension that arises when ideas are challenged, assumptions are questioned and critical thinking is elevated can make us uncomfortable at times (and can cause a new president to lose his hair; you should have seen my golden locks back in June!). However, my observation is that it is within this creative and unsettling tension that the best and most fruitful learning can occur. We subscribe to the Reformed theological view that all truth is God's truth, and that we should honor that truth, whether it is revealed to us through an act of human discovery, or through divine revelation. We search boldly for truth wherever that journey may take us, even to the limits of our understanding of God, because we are confident that God will meet us there.

Our New Testament lesson, familiar to many of us, can be understood in a fresh way in light of Whitworth's mission and theological heritage. In this passage from Matthew, Jesus admonishes the Pharisees, who are so close-minded and hard-hearted, that they are, in fact, failing to keep the law that they have elevated above all else – including the love of God. Jesus instructs the Pharisees, and us, that loving God requires the full, unfettered devotion of our hearts, our souls and our minds. He goes on to say that in loving God in this way – with our whole beings, hearts and minds – we shall love our neighbors as ourselves. This was a challenging statement for Jesus to make to the Pharisees in his day. It's just as challenging today as we ask ourselves, "Who is my neighbor?" In the events of this Inauguration Week, we've been called to see our neighbor among the poor and homeless of Spokane, among the albatross chicks choking to death by the hundreds of thousands on the plastic detritus of our consumer society, in the citizens and elected officials who hold political views opposed to our own, and among those we might erroneously and shamefully think might be excluded from God's divine grace. It's a radical call that echoes the radical call of Christ on our lives. What does the Lord require of us? Micah 6:8 makes it plain: "to do justice, to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God."

I believe that calling is captured beautifully in Whitworth's mission to equip our students to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. Lest you think that this mission is merely a theoretical construct – or all hat and no cattle, as they might say down south – let me assure you that even during the short three months that I have served as president, I have seen our mission in action. I witnessed and participated in last month's Community Building Day, which saw more than 1,200 Whitworth students, faculty and staff volunteers spend a morning serving the Spokane community – in shelters, retirement homes, and community centers – to reach people in need. What was even more remarkable about this event was the student leadership; senior Trista Van Berkum led a team of students who organized and coordinated all of our efforts. Madam Mayor, the message of the day was that as citizens of Whitworth, our students are also citizens of Spokane, and our students' time here should be spent, in part, investing in the life of this great city we all call home.

The opportunity to elevate our mission and to follow good student leadership was also evident in the last two weeks as our campus was informed that protesters from the Westboro Baptist Church, in Topeka, Kansas, would be making an uninvited visit to our campus, bringing their distortions of the Gospel and messages of hate directed primarily at America's gay community. After hearing the voices of students at an organized campus forum, voices that called for moderation, forgiveness, love, justice, and appropriate action, I made the decision to organize our institutional response around recommendations from student government. I wasn't disappointed; the activities and general response that our student leaders have articulated for Whitworth couldn't be better. I've never been more proud to be a Whitworthian.

Perhaps our campus was targeted by the members of Westboro because Whitworth and its students have always engaged the important issues facing society and the church, elevating grace and truth in the process. That work continues. Two weeks after our unwelcome guests from Westboro depart, Whitworth will host author and pastor Andrew Marin, whose life took an unexpected turn that inspired him to establish a groundbreaking, incarnational ministry to the gay community – a community that arguably has been marginalized in the Christian church like none other in today's society. Marin's approach moves beyond the seemingly intractable positions that so quickly divide the Christian church and focuses on the person of Jesus Christ. In his book, Love is an Orientation, published by Intervarsity Press, Marin writes that too often "the GLBT community is left to search for God without the body of Christ to assist them, encourage them and validate their human existence as children of God." What a travesty. Marin's visit highlights Whitworth's ongoing commitment to engage challenging issues that cause pain and discord within our community, the larger society, and Christ's church. It also tests our corporate commitment to avoid taking institutional positions on controversial issues over which thoughtful Christians disagree, and, therefore, to sustain an environment where our students can authentically grapple with their convictions in the context of Christian community, love, and support. Whether we are discussing poverty, other forms of social injustice, environmental stewardship, or issues of vocation, ministry, ethics, or professional education, Whitworth will stand boldly in the gap, creating a safe and constructive venue in which our students can learn, express their ideas, and become equipped to serve a world and a church characterized by increasing divisiveness, pluralism, and need.

At Whitworth University, students are surrounded by dedicated faculty and staff who are committed to the integration of Christian faith into all aspects of life and learning. At Whitworth University, students hear a broad range of voices, ideas and perspectives – both from within the community and from visiting speakers and artists – and they learn the importance of critical thinking and civil discourse. At Whitworth University, students receive the best possible education to prepare them to enter a pluralistic society that will challenge their deepest values and beliefs. This is the Whitworth University of George Whitworth's dreams. This is the Whitworth University that has been faithfully nurtured and sustained for 120 years. This is the Whitworth University I love and feel called to lead. And this is the Whitworth University I pledge to serve with courage and conviction.

At this point in my address, I am reminded of Whitworth's 8th president, Arthur Beatie, who served for only 10 months, spanning the years 1919 and 1920. Whitworth historian Dale Soden informs me that he was run out of the presidency not only because of some controversial decisions he made, but, more instructively for me today, because he preached sermons that were too long. Let me close by drawing us to think about the future of Whitworth University. I have said before that, as president, I inherit a tremendous legacy from my predecessors in Whitworth's well-articulated and broadly shared mission. That sturdy foundation gives me the luxury of working with our community to cast a bold and courageous vision for the institution. That vision, which must be shared among all of Whitworth's stakeholders, will inform decisions regarding critical issues that face the institution today – like managing enrollment growth, strategic investment in academic programs, the appropriate mix of traditional undergraduate and graduate/non-traditional programs, and how best to expand opportunities for the type of international education experiences offered at Whitworth's new Costa Rica campus. This vision also will chart an exciting path for the university that will inspire the support of all of Whitworth's constituencies, but especially that of our great benefactors, who have so generously equipped the university in the past, and from whom we will boldly ask for unprecedented levels of support to ensure that our shared vision is realized.

As I have traveled throughout the country in my first 100 days as Whitworth's president, meeting with university alumni, trustees, parents, and friends, I have communicated two basic messages: Whitworth will not change. And Whitworth must change. This intentional non sequitur is meant to highlight the importance of upholding Whitworth's enduring mission of mind and heart, but the wordplay is also meant to draw our community to the realization that Whitworth's mission is, and always has been, responsive to the changing needs of our students, to academic and pedagogical developments, to the church, to the larger society that we serve, and to the dynamic market and economic realities of higher education. To stand still in the face of these and other forces that will shape our future is to become increasingly irrelevant. And it is to shirk our sacred responsibility to ensure future generations of students not only the benefits of a Whitworth education that generations before them have experienced, but dare I say it, the promise of much, much more.

I want to briefly draw our attention to three areas that present the greatest challenges and the most promising opportunities for our community in the next 20 years: challenges and opportunities that must be addressed, in my opinion, for Whitworth to excel in serving future generations of students.

The first great challenge that our community must address is the unsustainable increases in the costs of higher education. The greatest challenge facing our students and families today is access. I've often described higher education as an "arms race" – colleges and universities are vigorously competing for the best students, the best academic programs, the best faculty, and the best facilities; our survival depends on our success. But this is a very expensive competition. And as an institution that depends heavily upon tuition revenue, Whitworth has seen its costs rise more than we would like and more than many prospective students can afford. Tuition at Whitworth in 1890 was $24 per year. Sixty years later, in 1950, the annual cost of tuition had grown by a factor of 12 to about $300. Fast forward another 60 years to 2010, and the cost of tuition has increased 100-fold, to $30,000 per year. Even taking inflation into account, the price tag for Whitworth students and their families has grown exponentially. This is as much an indictment of higher education as it is of Whitworth – for, you see, even amidst the rising costs for our students, the cost of a Whitworth education, compared to the costs of many of our peers, remains quite competitive. This was confirmed most recently when Whitworth was named, for the 11th straight year, a top-10 value in the West by US News & World Report. Although demand for a Whitworth education has never been stronger, our students are working many more hours and are graduating with much higher levels of debt than ever before. And many of our families are hanging on by a thread. While maintaining Whitworth's commitments to excellence, we absolutely must explore ways to rein in the costs that put upward pressure on tuition while we find more student-aid resources to keep a Whitworth education in financial reach of all students.

Second, one of Whitworth's greatest opportunities lies in the academic area, where I see opportunities for Whitworth to build upon many of its current strengths to focus more intently on applied and interdisciplinary scholarship and education. The most promising discoveries and academic programs exist today at the intersection of multiple academic disciplines. In my opinion, this is where the exciting action is, because 21st-century challenges in economics, engineering, and biomedical sciences, for instance, require new and innovative solutions. Our wonderful Whitworth faculty must lead this charge so that our students and leaders of tomorrow have access to this new thinking and can contribute to these important conversations. My own research and writing explores the intersections of economics with child developmental psychology. This scholarship leads me to believe that, although interdisciplinary work is difficult, such work can yield fresh and exciting insights that can inform policymakers. Whitworth already has several great examples of applied and interdisciplinary scholarship. For example, Professor of Education and Lindaman Chair Betty Williams, a nationally recognized expert in autism spectrum disorder, is working with computer science professor Susan Mabry to create a highly specialized analytical software application that will screen for autism, helping doctors to make referral decisions and track patients' progress. We can and we will explore more areas where our outstanding faculty can work together, across disciplines, to prepare our students to meet the challenges they will face after graduation.

Finally, for Whitworth to address both the ever-changing and increasing needs of our students and the exciting educational opportunities before us, we must elevate and then celebrate a renewed culture of philanthropy within the Whitworth community. We would not be enjoying Whitworth's glorious success in fulfilling George Whitworth's dream of providing a rigorous education of mind and heart were it not for our generous benefactors through the decades. Among those donors are individuals whose gifts have built classroom buildings and residence halls, library expansions and art buildings, fitness centers and science buildings. A number of them are trustees or long-time supporters of Whitworth seated directly in front of me. Many people here also give generously each year to The Whitworth Fund and to other causes on our campus, including student ministries, scholarships, student life, athletics, and academic programs. But Whitworth faces a challenge. As a private, faith-based institution of higher learning, we cannot depend upon state funding, and, increasingly, private charitable foundations are excluding institutions like Whitworth from their support because of our Christ-centered approach to education. More and more, Whitworth relies upon the financial giving of its own alumni and an increasing circle of friends who choose to make Whitworth their university. Friends, Whitworth's mission is noble, just, courageous, and absolutely necessary. So I will not hesitate to ask, with confidence and conviction, for your generous financial support. Let us all commit ourselves today, on this important occasion as we launch the next chapter in Whitworth's story, to support her cause and to ensure that students, 20, 50 and 100 years from now are equipped to love God and their neighbors with the full, unfettered devotion of their hearts, souls and minds.

Whitworth University, I am honored and humbled to be called to lead this incredible institution at this exciting moment in its history. You have my sacred pledge that I will, to the best of my ability and by God's grace, preserve, protect, and champion Whitworth's noble mission, and trumpet Whitworth's exciting vision, so that future generations of Whitworthians will experience an education of mind and heart that equips them to serve the world, to bring honor to their Creator, and to lift up the name of Christ, for his Kingdom's sake. Amen.


This year, we've learned some important lessons about ourselves. In the face of Westboro Baptist Church's demonstration of hate and condemnation, we learned we can pull together to embrace and support all members of the Whitworth community. Yet, on other occasions, our actions – individual and corporate, conscious and unconscious, subtle and blatant – failed our commitment to reflect God's love and grace to all people. Many of us learned, for example, that the N-word – burdened with its history of pain and oppression – cannot be used by anyone, regardless of race or intent, without hurting valued members of our community. These lessons remind us that we are all sinners and have much to learn, but, by God's grace, we are capable of being agents of justice and reconciliation.

So, as Whitworth today joins with organizations around the country in the YWCA's "Stand Against Racism" campaign, I think it's important to affirm together that there is no place at Whitworth for any form of bigotry or hate speech. Our "Big Three" campus code of conduct prohibits all behavior that threatens the safety or emotional well-being of another member of the campus community. When hate speech, including the N-word, is used by anyone on our campus, people we love feel threatened, hurt and marginalized. When we stand up to the ugly or careless use of such speech, we embody the kind of diverse, welcoming and vibrant community Whitworth aspires to be.

The Whitworth 2021 Vision & Strategic plan calls us to demonstrate courageous leadership for an increasingly diverse world by cultivating in students, faculty, staff and trustees the capacity to relate effectively across multiple dimensions of human difference. This is one of eight priorities in the strategic plan and is central to Whitworth's mission to equip students to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. Indeed, what it means for us to be an inclusive community is rooted in the very nature of the Triune God, in the rich and varied beauty of God's creation and in the image of God that every person bears.

We are preparing now to launch several initiatives that will advance this important work. A permanent representative body will be established to provide leadership and accountability for our goals related to diversity and intercultural competency. We will complete a campus-wide audit of diversity-related initiatives; an evaluation of current general education, American diversity, and global perspectives requirements in achieving their intended student learning outcomes; and a comprehensive assessment of Whitworth's learning, working, and living climate. These assessments will occur on a regular basis and will inform new approaches for recruiting students, staff and faculty, new professional development and training opportunities and new curricular and co-curricular programs. While we hope that these efforts will help us to attract and retain students, faculty and staff from underrepresented racial and ethnic populations, we know they will better prepare all graduates to pursue their vocation with intellectual competence, moral courage and deep compassion in an increasingly diverse world.

Important leadership is being provided by many, including Assistant Vice President for Intercultural Relations Larry Burnley, Associate Dean for Intercultural Student Affairs Esther Louie, and Dean of Spiritual Life Terry McGonigal. But we are all assigned to this work. Each of us has the responsibility to acknowledge our own biases and to work actively to build bridges of understanding with people from backgrounds different than our own. Each of us has the responsibility in our classes, in our residence halls and in our places of work to confront assaults on the Whitworth community with grace and truth. And each of us has the responsibility to be agents of grace and reconciliation where there is pain and discord. We still have much to learn. But I am confident that we are up to the task.


I am deeply honored that you have asked me to speak on this very important day in your lives. Congratulations, graduates, on your wonderful achievements. This has been a year of firsts for me as Whitworth's new president. What a wonderful community to be a part of – thanks for your gracious welcome. And I must admit to you that this is my first commencement address. As many speeches as I've given, as many people I've spoken to, this is my first occasion to send graduates off with a speech. Now, I've sat through plenty of commencements, and some pretty bad speeches. Before being asked to speak at this one, I used to think that commencement speeches were invented largely in the belief that outgoing graduates should never be released into the world until they have been properly sedated. I've grimaced as commencement speakers told hundreds of students dressed in identical caps and gowns that individuality is the key to success. By far, the best commencement speeches are the shortest, so I will do my best to be brief.

Tomorrow I will officiate at Whitworth's undergraduate commencement ceremony – a time to celebrate an important achievement for our graduating seniors, and the culmination of their significant efforts in reaching their educational goals. But for all of you, I dare say, today's graduate commencement ceremony most certainly honors your uncommon commitment to furthering your knowledge and expertise in ways that have required great sacrifice, not only on your part, but also on the part of your loved ones. For many of you, homework and projects were completed by sacrificing precious evening and weekend time with family and friends. For most of you, your graduate education has come at the expense of something else that would have undoubtedly paid you more immediate dividends. My dad used to say, "If you think education is expensive, you should try ignorance!" But for all of you, this achievement represents your admirable commitments not only to the life of the mind, but also to leadership, service, and professional development. Graduate degrees are not easy to earn – only one in 10 Americans has earned a post-baccalaureate degree. You have good reason to be proud of yourselves, as we are proud of you. You all inspire us, Whitworth's staff and faculty, to strive even harder to live out our callings to education and to this place called Whitworth. Your investments of time and energy inspire us to invest even more of ourselves in to serving you and the students who will come after you. And your sacrifices remind us of the value of our own sacrifices as we labor together to live out Whitworth's mission to prepare its graduates to "honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity." Thank you for those important gifts, and congratulations.

Congratulations, too, on timing the job market so well. I can just hear the sage conversations that occurred for some of you one or two years ago: "Getting a graduate degree is a great option right now because of the sluggish economy. Heck, by the time I graduate, the economy will have recovered and I'll be beating away the job offers." Well, your market-timing abilities aside, the economy is still struggling to recover from the financial meltdown, and while many of you have either found or retained your desired jobs, I know some of you are still looking expectantly for the next opportunity. We face very uncertain times, do we not? I want to encourage you today on that front, and I'll come back to that point in just a bit.

The title of my address this morning is Be Still. That's an odd title for a commencement address, isn't it? After all, we are here today not only celebrating the energies and activities that went into the successful completion of your graduate programs, but also celebrating what all of us (including those sitting behind you graduates) anticipate will be marvelously energetic, meaningful, successful and (some are praying, particularly those sitting behind you) financially lucrative lives of professional service in business, education, counseling, and ministry – no pressure. Dr. Aaron McMurray, Whitworth's director of alumni relations has already started identifying which of you will be the first to win alumni awards for your achievements – we're all counting on you! We certainly know that you don't accomplish all of that by being still!

Being still was the farthest thing from my mind when I finished my graduate work in 1997. As it will for many of you, the completion of my graduate degree meant moving my family to a new location, starting a new job, beginning my climb (once again) up the professional ladder, being called upon, indeed challenged, to demonstrate my value and worth to the organization and people I was called to serve. After all, a higher degree comes with higher expectations, as it should (one in ten, remember?). Plus, like many of you, I had graduate school debts to pay off. And like many of you, I had people watching closely from the sidelines, mostly advocates but also a few skeptics, waiting to see what would become of the guy sporting the fancy gown and graduate hood. I stand here today, 14 years later, with an even fancier gown and some extra hardware hanging around my neck, and people are still wondering what I can deliver. Achievements, promotions, success, being debt-free, living up to others' hopes, dreams, and expectations ...these things are going to require action! You cannot get to the top by sitting on your bottom. Being still is for slackers.

Interestingly, in both King David's lyrics found in the Psalms and in Jesus' words found in the Gospel of Mark, we see the command to "be still," although, I will concede, in neither case within the context of a commencement address. In the first instance, the command to "be still" is an instruction to us. In the second case, Jesus commands his own creation to "be still," but in doing so, we will see, he draws a connection back to the psalmist's lessons to us.

We live today in what Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith once called "the age of uncertainty." Instability in global economic and financial markets, unprecedented geopolitical unrest and outright revolution, a precipitous decline in society's trust in institutions of all kinds – including businesses, education providers, and the church – and a palpable, almost overwhelming malaise seem to be crowding out for many people all sense of clarity, optimism, and hope for the future.

Unemployment continues to hover at 9 percent, and many economists, including me, think that number understates the weakness plaguing our labor markets and the underlying economy. For generations of Americans, the three assets they could count on most – their homes, their retirements, and their healthcare coverage – now hold less value and induce more anxiety than ever before. "The earth gives way and the mountains quake," the psalmist reminds us. No longer are America's economic problems only our own; we see in dramatic fashion how our economy affects the entire globe, and conversely, the direct impact that the actions of people and organizations halfway around the world have upon us here in Spokane. Perhaps the most troubling thing is that at the root of many of these challenges lie the unethical and morally reprehensible actions of a few who have caused our society to question the trust and confidence it has placed in corporations and other organizations founded to serve our best interests. The word "big" has taken on a new meaning in the common lexicon, not simply as a description of the scale and scope of American business, but as a scarlet letter that assumes the worst intentions for all of us – big oil, big healthcare, big banking, and even big education.

Yes, even a profession as ancient and noble as education is under intense scrutiny these days, and trust and admiration for the education sector seems to be waning. As Americans read regular accounts of our country's students falling farther and farther behind the students of other industrialized countries, as well as those of some developing nations, Americans are right to question what seems to have gone wrong with our educational system. Uncertainty surrounding the funding of public education, the equality of access to high-quality K-12 and higher education, the assessment of students and teachers, and the competing interests of basic versus vocational education is just as troubling as the economic uncertainties I've mentioned. Like those disciples in the boat with Jesus that afternoon, educators are navigating stormy and turbulent waters, indeed.

And perhaps the institution facing the greatest number of challenges is Christ's church. Sexual abuse scandals, fiscal mismanagement, declining mainline Protestant church attendance, continuing disagreements, made all too public, about ordination standards for women and members of the GLBT community, attempts within society to turn the United States into a more decidedly Christian theocracy, potentially marginalizing so many of our citizens from other or no faith traditions, all the while undermining Christ's central teachings on justice, love, mercy and inclusion – these are but a few of the challenges that the church faces at the dawn of the 21st century. "The mountains fall into the heart of the sea, and its waters roar and foam," King David writes.

Are you encouraged yet? Well, I bring good news that we can seek and find great encouragement from the words of the psalmist and Jesus. Although challenges facing the professions you are serving seem overwhelming and intractable, you leaders cannot flinch in the face of adversity, change, and uncertainty. No, indeed. You must embrace these challenges for what they are – opportunities to lead. What is true about all of the professions and disciplines represented here today – teaching, counseling, education administration, business, theology, and ministry – is that they are noble and honorable professions, and they are important mediators for doing Christ's work in a world that needs your leadership.

Educators, you are doing Christ's work when you care for and nourish intellectually the youth of the world. Christ reminds us in Matthew 25 that the service and care we provide for our children, the least of these, is service and care provided to and for Christ himself. "Let the little children come to me," Jesus admonishes us (Matthew 19). Teachers, you are Christ's light to the world as you light the lamp of learning for your students, and as you provide access to transformative education for those who deserve opportunities to develop and use their God-given gifts and abilities.

I grew up in a broken home and lived in poverty with my mother until I was nine years old. I was challenged with emotional, behavioral, and educational setbacks. After I failed the third grade, my mom, previously divorced, married my stepdad, and we moved to Dallas, Texas, for a fresh start. I'll never forget my third grade teacher that year at Moss Haven Elementary School. Nancy Smith didn't see me as a failure, or as someone to seat in the coat closet as my previous teacher had done. She saw me as a child of promise: bright, eager, and maybe a little rambunctious. She spent hours with me, loving on me, encouraging me, and expecting much from me. Not only did I pass the third grade, I made straight A's. And now I'm the president of a university, and Nancy Smith's name, some 32 years later, is being spoken in front of hundreds of graduates and guests at commencement. Educators, you are agents for Christ's love, justice, and mercy. God is concerned with your life's purpose and mission.

In my former role as dean of a business school, one of my favorite things to do was to lift up, in the face of increasing scrutiny and derision, those business leaders who saw their activities as living out true vocation, who saw their organizations not merely as accumulators of profit, but as agents for the common good. Dan Cathy, a good friend of mine and the CEO of Chick-Fil-A, a quick-service restaurant company located in Atlanta, once told me that his favorite movie was Chariots of Fire because of Eric Liddell's line in that movie, "God made me fast. And when I run, I feel his pleasure." Dan Cathy said to me with tears in his eyes, "God made me a good businessperson. And when I make someone a good chicken sandwich and a cold sweet tea, when I employ thousands of people and help them provide for their families, when I train young people to go the second mile when they provide service to others, I feel God's pleasure."

The creation and distribution of wealth is a noble activity – or it should be. Providing services and products that improve the lifestyles, health, and productivity of others is worthy of our best efforts. The stewardship of resources, the opportunities to reinvest in communities, the obligation to provide meaningful employment to all people, regardless of race, gender, ethnicity, and socio-economic status, and the eagerness to care for nature in the process – these are things about which God is concerned. Business leaders, don't buy in to the false divide between the secular and the sacred. Don't bury your talents, but invest them in the kingdom (Matthew 25). You, too, are agents for Christ's love, justice, and mercy. God is deeply concerned with your life's purpose and mission.

And what is more central to this noble work than studying God and his generous revelation to us through holy scripture and the person of Jesus Christ, sharing the amazing grace and truth of the Gospel and equipping people to respond faithfully to God's call on their lives? Theologians, pastors and lay leaders, Christian educators and ministry directors, you are Christ's hands and feet as you nurture, care for, and empower the church to do God's redeeming work in a broken world. I had the pleasure yesterday morning to attend the Spokane Leadership Prayer Breakfast, where 400 members of the Spokane community gathered to pray for our elected and appointed leaders. The keynote speaker was 1982 Whitworth alum Noel Castellanos, who is CEO of the Christian Community Development Association and founding pastor of Chicago's La Villita Community Church. Noel and his family have lived for 20 years in one of the most difficult neighborhoods in the inner city of Chicago, where they have committed themselves to being God's agents of grace and shalom to their neighbors. Noel and the CCDA model for the church a fresh approach to how to work in and with communities. In a recent interview for the journal Faith and Leadership, Noel said, "We work from the inside out. We work long term. We move into the neighborhood and stay there for the next 20 to 30 years. We do life with our neighbors, and let the gospel permeate everything we do."

Master of arts in theology graduates, as you carefully search for a greater understanding of the mysteries of God, as you give comfort to the bereaved, provide divine sustenance to the spiritually hungry, and preach God's grace and truth in a world where both are in short supply; you labor with the Good Shepherd in caring for his flock. You are agents of Christ's love, justice, and mercy, and God is profoundly concerned with your life's purpose and mission.

So it follows, if God is concerned with your life's purpose, if he has called and equipped you for your education at this university and for the important work and service you will offer as you leave this place -- work and service that will animate Christ's redemptive work in the world -- then all of this isn't really about you and me, is it? It's about what God is doing through you, through each of us. And if it's about what God is doing, then what do we have to fear – even in the face of great adversity, change, and uncertainty? As we cling tightly to the sides of the swaying boat, Jesus rebukes us, saying, "Why are you so afraid? Do you still have no faith?" Romans 8 instructs us that "in all things God works for the good of those who love him and who have been called according to his purpose," and "If God is for us, who can be against us?" Philippians 1 reminds us that God, "who began a good work in you, will carry it on to completion until the day of Christ Jesus." Paul is reminding us of our purpose and identity in Christ if we proclaim him Lord and Savior, but I believe with all my heart that God's redemptive work in us is mediated through his particular calling on our lives, our calling as husband, or mother, or nurse, or accountant, or teacher, or investment banker, or college professor, or school counselor, or youth ministry coordinator. What is required of you in this calling? "To act justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with your God" (Micah 6:8). Good people, you are agents for Christ's love, justice, and mercy. God is intimately concerned with your life's purpose and mission, because he is the author of that purpose and mission.

We indeed live in challenging times. Our professions are under attack. Leaders feel beleaguered. The world is shifting. Change is constant. Uncertainty reigns. "The earth gives way, the mountains fall into the heart of the sea, the waters roar and foam, and the mountains quake with their surging," David warns us. Our boats are rocked and unstable, the storms are closing in, and we are prone to be afraid. But God is concerned with our missions. He's invested. He's all in. God loves us and the people we serve. He's called us -- with our varied gifts and talents, passions, and experiences -- to the work we do.

So what is God's word for you this day? When you are overwhelmed with the tasks of the day, when the details just don't seem to be working out, when you are feeling worn down and your hope is fragile, God says, "I am your refuge and strength, an ever-present help in trouble." When you are fearful that your efforts aren't making a difference, or that the winds of resistance are about to knock you down, or that your investments in an advanced degree at Whitworth might not pay off, God says, "Do not fear. I, the Lord God Almighty, am with you." When your foundation is rocked, when your tank is empty, when, in the process of serving others, you realize your needs may be greater than those of the ones who depend on you, God says, "I will be your fortress." When you are too frantic with the urgent matters of the day, fighting fires, solving problems, moving too quickly over so many tasks that you are neither attentive to nor effective at any one of them, God says, "Be still, and know that I am God." When you face failure, when the demands are just too much, when you can't see through the haze of uncertainty, when giving up seems a much better outcome than being swallowed up, when that graduate hood feels more like a noose than a fashion statement -- right there at the brink -- Jesus reminds us that he is God and we are not, and he commands the wind and waves to cease their attack. "Be still!" Have faith.

Graduates, we indeed live in interesting times. But the challenges you are being called to conquer have been ever-present, even during your study here, and yet you have not been deterred from finishing the race. You enter the next chapter of your lives with eyes wide open, well-informed and superbly equipped to meet those challenges with intellectual competence, moral courage, and deep compassion. Abide in the full confidence that God has called you here to Whitworth, and that God sends you into a world of great need, to be agents of Christ's love, justice, and mercy. Thank you for your commitment to enter that noble service. We love you, we're so very proud of you, and we wish you Christ's blessings as you lead and serve. Amen.


Elorm Atisu gave you your charge last night at Senior Reflections. It's an often-repeated phrase at Whitworth, because it's who we are. It's our mission – Elorm joked that I repeat it a lot. I do, because it's at the heart of all that we attempt do at Whitworth. There are few college campuses whose students can recite the institution's mission – I dare say just a handful. And there are even fewer campuses whose students are equipped to live out that mission so faithfully. Elorm reminded us last night that your charge is to "honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity." Let's repeat that together, once in unison. It's hard to improve on that.

Giving charges is new for me – I can't quite say that I've ever been asked to give a charge before I became Whitworth's president. And then they asked me to give a charge in Core 350 in the fall and spring this year. So, seniors, this is the second official charge I give you as our newest alumni. But I'm still wondering, how does one give a charge? Is it an order? A benediction? Some helpful advice, perhaps?

As I thought about the charge I might give you remarkable Whitworthians who have contributed so much to the Whitworth community, I thought of some common understandings of "charges" and how they might relate to your experiences as you begin to live out Whitworth's mission as alumni.

Whitworth loves Pirate basketball. A basketball charge is a foul committed by an offensive player who barrels through his or her defensive counterpart, often leaving the defensive players flat on his or her back – it's not pretty. Class of 2011, let me assure you that, in basketball terms, "you've got game." You are ready to tackle our society's most difficult challenges. You are ready to contribute significantly to the missions of the organizations and persons you will be called to serve. Each one of you is equipped with the intellectual competence, moral courage, and deep compassion it will take to honor God, follow Christ, and serve humanity. But let me encourage you that serving a world in great need and being a servant in the image of Christ to persons of different backgrounds, experiences, perspectives, and cultures will require finesse, wisdom, and great care. In your heartfelt efforts to advocate, persuade, and serve, you graduates don't want to be called for an offensive charge. Rather, Whitworth graduates around the globe are known for their grace and ability to work effectively across differences. Just as basketball players are sometimes asked to "take a charge," you all will have plenty of opportunities to extend forgiveness and to work constructively for reconciliation, even when you are wronged.

Americans also love credit cards. Recently, when I was running low on cash at the grocery store, my four-year-old, Chloe, reminded me that I could "just charge it." When we use our credit cards, we are entering into a two-way promise: the bank that issues our card agrees to pay the current charges for the goods or services we desire, and in return for the convenience of credit, we promise to settle our accounts with the bank at a later date. The relationships you enjoy with family members, colleagues and friends work the same way: at times you will need to draw on your personal credit lines in asking others for help, guidance, and wisdom as you launch your post-college lives. But you will need to keep a close eye on your relational accounts. Are you giving back as much as, or more than you're receiving? Are you maintaining good credit, so to speak, by investing in others just as generously as others have invested in you My charge to you, our newest Whitworth alumni, is that you should strive to have great credit.

I thought also of the charge we get from electricity. We all enjoy personalities that are described as "electric." These are people with passion, a love of life, and a deep sense of calling – sounds like the Class of 2011 to me. Let me remind you that you are called to be plugged in to both the ultimate source of power (Jesus Christ) and the distribution grid (a community of faith) that can energize in you a spirit of love, joy, peace, forbearance, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness and self-control. When your spiritual wires get crossed, sparks and power loss can occur, but when your wires are connected correctly to their source (Jesus) and to the grid that keeps them grounded (a community of believers), the Power Giver can direct your energies in ways that maximize your gifts and talents to change the world.

Finally, I thought of Charles Wesley's poem, A Charge to Keep I Have, based on Leviticus 8:35: "Keep the charge of the Lord." The poem reads:

A charge to keep I have,
A God to glorify,
A never-dying soul to save,
And fit it for the sky.

To serve the present age,
My calling to fulfill:
O may it all my powers engage
To do my Master's will!

Arm me with jealous care,
As in Thy sight to live;
And O, Thy servant, Lord, prepare
A strict account to give!

Help me to watch and pray,
And on Thyself rely,
Assured, if I my trust betray,
I shall forever die.

So this is my charge to you, the members of the Class of 2011. First, as you serve the needs of others, work effectively and graciously across differences. Be winsome; don't foul out. Second, just as so many have invested in you, seek opportunities to invest in the lives of others. Don't go over your credit limit – pay off your balances. Third, stay plugged in to the giver of life, Jesus Christ, and connect with other believers for encouragement, nourishment, and accountability. Don't get your wires crossed as you enter the next exciting chapter of your lives – stay grounded. And finally, in the words of Charles Wesley, "Serve the present age, your calling to fulfill, and may it all your powers engage, to do your Master's will." We love you, and may God in Christ bless you all the days of your life. Amen.


Good morning, Whitworth! Thank you for being here. Opening Convocation is a very important symbolic statement about our community at Whitworth, and it's wonderful to see so many who have chosen to celebrate the beginning of Whitworth's 122nd academic year with us.

The sights and sounds of today's event remind us of some very important things. First, our students are here. We are reminded, by their participation here today, of Whitworth's core mission – the mind-and-heart education of students. That is why we exist. Students lie at the very center of our community – whether they are traditional undergraduates, or continuing studies students, or graduate students – and part of our purpose today is to rededicate ourselves to the noble purpose of educating these students. I want to add a special welcome to our newest students. If you are a new transfer student, a new continuing studies student, or a new graduate student at Whitworth, would you please rise and let us welcome you? Next, I would like the Whitworth Class of 2015 to rise and let us greet you. We are so pleased that all of you are now a part of the Whitworth family.

Our faculty members are also here today, dressed in their academic splendor. Our faculty serves as an important reminder to all of us about dedication, loyalty, and the importance of the life of the mind. We rely upon our faculty to guide our academic programs and to lead and mentor students as they learn, grow, and mature. Our faculty members also remind us of the deep and important connections Whitworth has to the broader academic community – the colors of the various academic robes and hoods worn today represent the colleges and universities that have faithfully lived out their respective missions to produce scholars and teachers of the highest caliber – and now Whitworth is the beneficiary of that good work. Faculty members, please rise and let us thank you for all you do and for all that you represent.

Next, Whitworth's fantastic staff members are here today. They represent so well Whitworth's deep and sustaining commitments to service and to excellence. Behind every great faculty and every great student body are women and men who serve in areas like the registrar's office, campus security, information technology, the print shop, financial aid, administrative support, student activities, and many other vital areas. I often say that Whitworth will never be any better than the excellence that its staff members bring each and every day – and fortunately, our staff members are great, and that makes Whitworth great. Staff members, please stand and let us welcome and thank you.

Whitworth's external constituencies are also represented here this morning. Friends, donors, alumni, auxiliary members, pastors, community members, parents, public servants: These are all people who give life to the university through their steadfast prayers, significant leadership, volunteer service, and generous financial giving. All of those I have just mentioned, who support Whitworth in such amazing ways, please rise and let us thank you for all that you do.

Finally, our university trustees provide wise leadership and provide the ultimate safeguard for Whitworth's distinctive mission through exercising sound governance, through thorough planning and oversight, and through generously offering their time, wisdom, and financial resources. This morning, Debbie Cozzetto, a member of our board, is here representing all of her trustee colleagues. Debbie, please stand and allow us to thank you and our entire board of trustees. Thank you.

We all form the Whitworth community – each and every one of us is part of this university's DNA. We have different roles and responsibilities, we intersect with the university in different ways, but each of us contributes significantly to this place and helps to make Whitworth what it is. As I often remind our students, you all make Whitworth a better place because you are here. Although I've been a member of this community for only a little more than one year, it is already one that I deeply love and feel compelled to serve with all of my energies. On behalf of Julie and our entire family, I want to thank you for the past year – thanks for creating the grace-filled space for us to be new, to ask a lot of questions, and to make some mistakes. We are so grateful and blessed to call you our friends and colleagues.

It was this same community that had a very important conversation last year. Together, we tackled questions like, "Who – and what – is Whitworth?"; "In what ways are we living out our mission well, and in what areas do we see need for improvement?"; and, ultimately, "How do we imagine the university in 10 years if we are able to come together, again as a community, and dedicate ourselves to focusing on key elements of the university's life and identity that we find compelling and exciting, and which we determine to be central to Whitworth's core values and commitments?" That conversation invited more than 25,000 Whitworthians, located all over the globe, to weigh in on these defining questions. Many of you in this room were directly involved in providing input to what ultimately emerged as the university's 10-year vision statement and supporting strategic plan, Whitworth 2021: Courage at the Crossroads.

The 2021 vision connects past with future. It draws heavily from the university's historic and sustaining commitments to mind-and-heart education, to relational community, to being intellectually open and engaging, but also to being unapologetically enthusiastic about the university's commitments to Christ and to his life, ministry and teaching. It looks boldly to the future by identifying the kinds of educational outcomes that will be necessary for our students and community to draw upon as we engage an ever-changing world. Thinking harder about finding connections between faith and learning, strengthening the vitality of intellectual life in all domains of university life, preparing our students for global citizenship and for lives of service and leadership in a world much more diverse than the one we find here, finding new and refreshed traction for the liberal arts as they shape the educational priorities of all of our academic programs, enhancing Whitworth's programs for adult learners and graduate students, supporting and equipping our employees in new and exciting ways, and exercising diligent stewardship in growing Whitworth's financial and capital resources: These are the major priorities that will consolidate and organize our efforts, God willing, over the next decade.

One of the most exciting things about our envisioning efforts last year was the effort to give some more definition to what it means to prepare Whitworth's graduates "to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity." Specifically, embedded within the university's new vision statement is the commitment to equip graduates "to respond to God's unique call on their lives with intellectual competence, moral courage, and deep compassion." Competence...courage... compassion: the "Three Cs." These are attributes of our students and graduates that we choose to affirm and to elevate. What would it mean if Whitworth's students and graduates, indeed, if all of us who are a part of the Whitworth community, faithfully lived out our God-given vocations in ways that were intellectually competent (striving for and displaying excellence in all things), morally courageous (standing up for what is right and just), and deeply compassionate (seeing the needs of others before our own)? I began to answer this question myself several weeks ago as I started thinking about my remarks this morning. Then it hit me – it's important to elevate these attributes as we think about the university's future, and they give clearer context for what it means to "serve humanity." But these aren't brand-new concepts for the Whitworth community. Indeed, those of us who are blessed to serve and live on this campus see competence, courage and compassion all around us. So I've asked three of our community members to come this morning and to share their thoughts on the "Three Cs": competence, courage and compassion. In my opinion, these three speakers embody these characteristics.

I will introduce each of our guest speakers this morning, then ask each one to come to the podium and share his or her thoughts with us. When all three are finished, I will conclude.

Kari Olson graduated from Whitworth this past May. A winner of the President's Cup (given to seniors who graduate with a perfect 4.0 GPA), Kari majored in theology and speech communication, minored in biblical languages, and was active in a number of groups on campus. Many of us who know Kari quickly associate her with excellence, with consummate competence. This became even clearer to me two weeks ago when I heard Kari preach a masterful and God-honoring sermon at Whitworth Community Presbyterian Church, where she currently serves as intern pastor.

Darrien Mack is a member of the Whitworth Class of 2013. An Act Six scholar, Darrien was a Leonard Oakland Film Festival Award winner last year. He is a graphic design major known for his genuineness, inner strength and winning personality. I asked him to speak about courage because this value is at the heart of his presence at Whitworth. His understanding of courage is indicative of what it means to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity.

Finally, Melissa Johnson is a member of the Whitworth Class of 2012. A peace studies major minoring in community engagement and transformation, Melissa took an entire year's hiatus from the university last year to live and work in Rwanda. Her community-development work had a profound impact on her life and on the lives of those who came into contact with her. As a Bonner Leader, Melissa has worked with communities in need, serving as the hands and feet of the mind and heart. Melissa's compassion is unparalleled and is an example to each of us.

Let's thank Kari, Darrien and Melissa one more time for their challenging and encouraging words.

Competence, courage and compassion – these are attributes to which all Whitworth graduates, indeed all of us, should be committed. Members of this community, let us dedicate ourselves, here and now, to being intellectually competent, morally courageous, and deeply compassionate members of the Whitworth community; to being competent, courageous and compassionate friends, family members, and neighbors; to being competent, courageous and compassionate servants within our community and across the globe; to being competent, courageous and compassionate citizens; to being competent, courageous and compassionate Whitworthians. May it be so through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the power of the Holy Spirit. Amen.


Today is a day when we celebrate our mothers. We all have one. Many are still living, and many of you graduates have your mothers here this morning. For others, including for some of our graduates, our mothers are embodied in the memories we have of them and in the investments they made in our lives that still bear fruit today, and for which we are eternally grateful. In every way, it is a blessing that we can celebrate our mothers on the same day we celebrate our graduates' achievements – because without one, we wouldn't have the other.

Graduates, today is also a day that you celebrate and acknowledge another "mother" in your lives. From this day forward, members of the Class of 2012, Whitworth University will be your alma mater, which is Latin for "nourishing" or "nurturing" mother. There is some debate about how a term that was once used as a reference to Roman goddesses ended up as our culture's term of affection for the college or university from which we graduate, but it is clear that the medieval scholars who co-opted the term saw the university as a place that was nurturing and supportive, like our earthly mothers, and if we take the metaphor to its extreme, a place that gives birth to a new life, a learned life, a life of exploration, discovery, introspection, and vocation.

Knowing in advance that today's events would compete with our annual celebration of our mothers, I began to think about ways in which our alma maters, specifically Whitworth for you graduates, and our earthly mothers are similar. So as part of my charge to you this morning, graduates, and in honor of Mother's Day, I bring you my top 10 list of similarities between Whitworth University and your moms:

No. 10: Both of us (your mothers and we at Whitworth) think you're better looking and a lot smarter than you probably really are. Now, I've checked with your moms, and we think it's only responsible of us to let you in on this secret now, before you leave the pinecone curtain and enter the real world. Don't get me wrong: We do think you're good looking and we do think you're wicked smart – but you've grown on us over the years. Your new colleagues at work or in graduate school will need to get to know you too, to learn to appreciate you, and over time, I'm sure they'll see you as the same game changers we do!

No. 9: As long as we're on this topic, we (that is, your mother and the university) are both better looking and smarter than you think we are. Now, I know there are times when we embarrass you – you think we're old-school with our kooky dancing, love of '60s music, and detailed "cohab" rules, but we deserve some credit, too. Your appreciation for your moms -- and for the university, for that matter -- will only increase with time. One day, housing lottery rules will make sense, Graves Gym will seem nostalgic, Core 250 will seem practical, and mom's Christmas pajamas, you know, the ones she's worn each Christmas morning since you were born, will be cool.

No. 8: Despite our best attempts, mothers and Whitworth both have trouble remembering you as anything other than an 17-year-old. Former Harvard College Dean Harry Lewis once said that we shouldn't forget that college is mostly about turning 17- and 18-year-olds into 21- and 22-year-olds. Your moms, and we at Whitworth, know you've grown and matured since you left home and arrived at Whitworth, but it's hard not to miss the cute and cuddly high-schooler you were: young, naïve, good-looking, idealistic, never having thrown a Frisbee. Some moms have told me they miss Thanksgiving dinners that don't include conversations about metaphysics and epistemology, or about virgin pine cones and DTRs. We at Whitworth remember you fondly as freshmen moving into your new residence halls during orientation, some of you pulling U-Hauls made for packing three-bedroom homes, full of stuff to cram into your rooms – and you parents leaving campus that same weekend with U-Hauls full of stuff that didn't fit. We remember the good old days when we had you convinced that you actually had to buy all of the required texts for your classes. Although your mothers and we miss that adorable 17-year-old version of you, we also love the 22-year-olds you've become.

No. 7: We both told you what to wear this afternoon for graduation.

No. 6: While we both enjoyed your time living with us, our jobs were to move you out eventually. And believe me, we both had our doubts that day would ever come.

No. 5: We'll both nag you to stay in touch. Remember to call us from time to time – Sundays after lunch are good. We want to hear about your accomplishments, what you think about your new jobs, who you're dating, how smart and good-looking your friends think you are. In fact, you could come home more often – don't miss homecomings, or Thanksgiving dinners for that matter. And when the phone rings, and the caller I.D. reads "Mom" or "Whitworth Phonathon," just say to yourself, "Oh, that's mother calling. I'd better answer. I wonder if she needs money."

No. 4: We both want what's best for you, and we are both pretty sure we know what that is. Yes, it's true, both of us, your moms and those of us at the university, have pretty strong opinions about how you should spend your time after graduation – and those opinions most often include your earning a paycheck and not living in our basement. Seriously, we see the amazing gifts and talents you brought here with you, and the ones that have been discovered and cultivated at Whitworth, and we are in awe. We pray that you will steward those blessings well. We both celebrate the person you are and the person God is calling you to be. And we are both ready to stand by your side and support you. We are both praying for you. And we'll both be quick to give an opinion, if asked.

No. 3: We've both poured our lives into you. Sometimes, admittedly, what we had to offer wasn't enough: it was imperfect, incomplete, and often short of the need at hand – but we gave you our best. What we had to offer – our wisdom, our experiences, a nurturing home and a safe place to learn, grow and mature – we offered in love, hoping that you would take these relatively small and imperfect offerings and turn them into something bigger. Thanks for the graceful way you accepted these imperfect gifts, and for the faithful way you made them better through your hard work, diligence, and vision. You make it seem like we contributed more than we really did. Thank you for that.

No. 2: You've influenced our identities. We learned from you just as much as you learned from us…maybe more. The way we understand ourselves and see our own unique gifts and challenges has been deeply informed by the ways we know you. We see in you who and what we are, and who and what we hope to become. We are encouraged to continue in our vocations, as mothers and as employees of Whitworth University, because of the encouragement you've given to us. We see ourselves in you. We hope you see yourselves in us, because we know we are better for knowing you.

And finally . . . the No. 1 similarity between Whitworth and your mom: We both want you to honor God, follow Christ, and serve humanity. We pray that your lives will reflect your knowledge of a sovereign God who has so graciously given you a mind and a heart to engage his creation with intellectual competence, moral courage, and deep compassion. We pray that your lives will reflect the grace and truth of our Redeemer and Lord, Jesus Christ. And we pray that you will be Christ's hands and feet as you humbly serve a world in great need, a world that needs you so desperately.

So my charge to you, the extremely smart and good-looking graduates of the Class of 2012, is to remember both of your mothers, this day and every day. We love you, and may God in Christ bless you all the days of your life. Amen.


I am deeply honored that you have asked me to speak on this very important day in your lives. Congratulations, graduates, on your wonderful achievements. It has been my honor to serve you as Whitworth's president during your time here, and I can think of no more exciting opportunity than to address you now, after so much hard work and accomplishment. Now, I've sat through plenty of commencements, and some pretty bad speeches. I used to think that commencement speeches were invented largely in the belief that outgoing graduates should never be released into the world until they had been properly sedated. By far, the best commencement speeches are the shortest. A trusted friend reminded me of that just this week when she encouragingly stated, "No one will be disappointed when you're finished!" So I will do my best to be brief.

Before I begin, I would like to acknowledge that this weekend's commencement exercises will be the last for our provost, Dr. Michael Le Roy, to officiate at Whitworth. On July 1, Dr. Le Roy will begin his service as president of Calvin College, in Grand Rapids, Michigan. His colleagues, and you students, have benefited tremendously from Michael's leadership of Whitworth's academic programs. We wish him only the best in his new role, and we will miss him. Would you please join me in thanking Dr. Le Roy for his important service to Whitworth?

Tomorrow I will officiate Whitworth's undergraduate commencement ceremony – a time to celebrate an important achievement for our graduating seniors and the culmination of their significant efforts to reach their educational goals. But for all of you, I dare say, today's graduate commencement ceremony most certainly honors your uncommon commitment to furthering your knowledge and expertise in ways that have required great sacrifice, not only on your part, but also on the part of your loved ones. For many of you, homework and projects were completed by sacrificing precious evening and weekend time with family and friends. For most of you, your graduate education has come at the expense of doing other things that would have paid you more immediate dividends. But for all of you, this achievement represents your admirable commitments not only to the life of the mind, but to leadership, service, and professional development. Graduate degrees are not easy to earn – only one in 10 Americans has earned a post-baccalaureate degree. You have good reason to be proud of yourselves, as we are proud of you. You inspire us, Whitworth's staff and faculty, to strive even harder to live out our callings to education and to this place called Whitworth. Your investments of time and energy inspire us to invest even more of ourselves into serving you and the students who will come after you. And your sacrifices remind us of the value of our own sacrifice as we work together to live out Whitworth's mission to prepare its graduates to "honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. " Thank you for those important gifts, and congratulations to each one of you.

The title of my address today and the scripture passages I will use as its backdrop were due to the commencement committee back on Monday, April 2. The weekend before, I had pondered a few themes that I thought might be appropriate, and some ideas were beginning to come together in my mind. But on Sunday, April 1, the day before my assignment was due, I received a phone call from my mother informing me that my 82-year-old father was not expected to live more than another 48 hours. Julie and I made immediate plans to fly to Texas on Monday, hoping we would arrive in time to say goodbye. By God's grace, we arrived late Monday night (really Tuesday morning – we arrived by my dad's bedside about 1 a.m. ), and we were able to spend several wonderful hours with my dad before he passed away peacefully on Wednesday morning.

After our arrival in the early hours that Tuesday morning, and after spending a couple of hours with my dad, I decided to spend the rest of the night at the hospital, sending Julie on to the house so she could be with our five-year-old, who was also in tow. Before I found a decent couch in the waiting room where I could catch a little sleep, I made the mistake of checking my e-mail, which I hadn't done since leaving Spokane the day before. As soon as I turned on my iPad, at about 3 a.m. , the electronic reminder about submitting my commencement address title and biblical references popped up, warning me that I was late with this important assignment. I had to decide quickly, but I already knew I was going to change course. On the plane ride to Texas, I had deliberately scribbled on a little piece of paper several Bible passages that I would read to my dying father if I had the chance – comforting passages that I prayed would give him peace in his last moments. Psalm 139, the passage Aaron Farance read so well this morning, was one of those texts.

In that comforting passage, which I reread there in the waiting room with my dying father only a few feet away, the psalmist reminds us of God's sovereignty over our lives by pointing first to his creative power and then to his intimate knowledge of his creation. "O Lord, you have searched me and you know me," the psalmist declares. "You know when I sit and when I rise; you perceive my thoughts from afar. You discern my going out and my lying down; you are familiar with all my ways. Before a word is on my tongue you know it completely, O Lord. " The psalmist continues, "For you created my inmost being; you knit me together in my mother's womb. I praise you because I am fearfully and wonderfully made. "

These words are appropriate not only for the dying, who are comforted through the knowledge of God's ultimate care for them, the most beloved of God's creations; they are also appropriate for us as we celebrate important milestones in life, like the important achievements we elevate today. Today we celebrate many things; among them are the unique gifts, amazing talents, deep passions and rich experiences each of you brought to your studies here, and the ways in which you used those blessings to inform and contribute to the educational experiences you are now concluding. Those gifts are special things – they call each of you, they call all of us, to discern how God is positioning us in a world of great need, not just for our own personal growth and advancement, but also to contribute to God's redeeming work. We draw comfort and confidence knowing that God has a plan for us. "Our days are ordained," the psalmist exclaims. They are set apart, consecrated for high purposes. The paths you followed to a graduate degree were not random – you did not accidentally stumble into a master's program at Whitworth through some complex interaction of chance and circumstance, or by sheer luck. To the contrary, we celebrate today the investments many people have made in your lives. We acknowledge the material blessings that have made a graduate education accessible to you. We rejoice in the intellectual gifts that have sustained you through a rigorous academic program. We are thankful for the ways in which you have discerned the vocational calling that led you to enroll at Whitworth. These are all gifts from God. Indeed, these days have been ordained for you – and you have been faithful. From the beginning of self-awareness to the moments when we take our final breaths, we can rest assured that we are "fearfully and wonderfully made. " God has a plan for our lives, and that fact brings us assurance and confidence.

So there I was, sitting in the hospital waiting room, relieved that even though the circumstances that placed me there weren't ones I'd have wished for, those same circumstances gave me inspiration for the words I would speak to you this morning. And I was relieved to have completed my task, even if I was a bit late. But there in that empty and quiet place, I began to wonder if the lessons from the psalmist were enough. Psalm 139 gives us confidence and assurance, and that's a good thing. But what about humility? My mind immediately went to Paul's extremely transparent discourse in his letter to the church at Philippi, the passage that Michael Hockett read for us, a passage of scripture that transports us immediately from confidence, and the unhealthy arrogance that can often accompany it, straight to humility, a virtue I also want to elevate this morning. It seems to me that in the context of service to others, confidence without humility can lead to uninformed, misplaced, or potentially destructive behavior. Conversely, humility without confidence might lead us to actions that are weak or ineffectual, or it could lead to complete inaction.

Humility isn't a characteristic that is often coupled with higher education and advanced degrees – indeed, humility isn't a virtue elevated very often at all in modern society. The academy often elevates characteristics, like hyper-criticism, that can seem contradictory to humility, and modern culture is replete with examples of arrogance, excess, and haughtiness. You graduates have every reason to be proud of your accomplishments this morning. But realize that education brings with it the twin responsibilities of power and privilege, and these things can often work against our need to reflect humility in our service to others. The question ultimately becomes, On what will you base your confidence, and will that basis provide for and support a posture of humility, and will it allow you to order your priorities well? How will you use your power and privilege? You will recall that the psalmist encourages us to place our confidence in our Creator. In his letter to the Philippians, the apostle Paul similarly encourages us to place our confidence not in worldly accolades or earthly achievements, but in Christ, and Christ alone. We find real humility there.

Paul's résumé was impressive. If Paul's world had been higher education, he would have been the most educated among us, having the most advanced degrees and holding the most esteemed endowed faculty chair. But Paul's world wasn't education; rather, it was first-century Jewish culture – a culture into which the early church was cast. In that world, Paul had many reasons to boast, and his first-century curriculum vitae provided every opportunity for him to assert confidence and authority. If folks in the early church were comparing résumés, no one had a résumé that could stand up to Paul's. Paul says, If you want to go "old school," I was circumcised on the eighth day. You want a superior pedigree? I'm Jewish, and not only that; I was born into the same tribe as King David. You want sound theology? I'm a Pharisee and I know the law backward and forward. You want evidence of commitment and work ethic? Did you see how I persecuted the Christians when I thought that was the right thing to do? Paul put all of his cards on the table and rhetorically challenged anyone who wanted to go toe to toe with him to come forward. But Paul knew that those things – things that the world might emphasize – didn't matter any longer. "What I once counted as profit," Paul said, "I now count as loss. " For you MBA graduates, Paul was saying that in comparison to the identity and confidence he had in Christ, what he would have normally counted as assets may as well be counted now as liabilities. Paul had every reason to boast and brag and to leverage his accomplishments into authority, power and privilege. He had confidence in Christ, and in Christ's calling on his life, and with that he found humility, a humility that empowered him to use his power and privilege to serve a world that needed to hear the good news.

Confidence and humility are two sides of the same coin. Graduates, you should have confidence that you are well equipped and prepared to meet the challenges and opportunities that lie ahead in business, education and ministry. Your Whitworth education and your unique gifts, passions and experiences have positioned you well to accomplish what God is calling you to do. That confidence is ultimately based in your identity as a child of God, a God who knows you, loves you, and has ordained your work of service in this world. Your identity in Christ, and the surpassing greatness of knowing him, allows you to put everything in perspective, benefitting at once from the confidence you have obtained, but living through the humility you now model, casting aside those things that our culture would elevate and instead relying on Christ to guide and direct your path. Those words are, as I discovered in the early morning of April 3, edifying in both life and death. And I hope they are encouraging to you today as you complete this significant chapter in your lives and begin the next.

Graduates of Whitworth University, abide in the full confidence that God has called you here to Whitworth, and that he sends you into a world of great need, to be humble agents of Christ's love, justice, and mercy. Thank you for your commitments to enter that noble service. We love you, we're so very proud of you, and we wish you Christ's blessings as you lead in confidence and serve in humility. Amen.


To all members of the Whitworth family:

As we begin Whitworth's 126th academic year, I want to address the difficult issues surrounding the recent use of blackface by some of our students. Like so many of you, my hope and prayer is that, in Christ, our community can become a place where respect for each person, made in the image of God, unites us and enables constructive dialogue on the opportunities and challenges that face our diverse community. That's the Whitworth way.

I want to acknowledge first that the students involved in this incident don't bear all of the blame. These students, each one a loved member of the Whitworth family, acted not out of malice, but out of ignorance. To the extent that their education, both before coming to Whitworth and after their arrival, failed to teach them important facts about the segregation and dehumanization of blacks and other racial minorities in the United States, we are to blame. Blame falls upon each of us whose charge, over the course of a student's education, is to teach history well and to equip and prepare students to be competent citizens in an increasingly diverse world. On behalf of all of us who share the noble call to teach, I apologize – to those who were injured by yet another example of insensitivity and privileged indifference; to our students, who unwittingly donned symbols of oppression, racial stereotyping, and cultural misappropriation; and to every person who works to cultivate racial harmony and reconciliation. We must do better, and we will.

Although I am convinced that the students involved in this incident did not act with malicious intent, the immediate impact of their actions reached far and wide. In a community and society already scarred by racial injustice, what may have seemed like an innocent photograph reopened old wounds or poured salt into those that were already festering. To ignore the impact of the photograph, perhaps under the veil of the students' innocent intent, would be to say to our brothers and sisters that we do not acknowledge their feelings of insecurity, marginalization, and impatience as they wait for our community to live out commitments made long, long ago. For those who would claim that the innocence of the action completely covers the damage that was done, I would humbly ask that you listen well to the voices of those we love who are in pain because of the ways in which this incident reminds them of the lack of progress in combatting racial injustice in our communities. For the pain that this incident caused across the Whitworth family and beyond, I apologize, and I pledge that Whitworth will redouble its efforts in these areas.

Today I am announcing a new initiative called #WhitworthUnited, a broad-based effort to educate, to inform, and to encourage dialogue so that we may seek the unity of Christ through racial reconciliation on our campus and in our community. To demonstrate the university's commitment to these efforts, I'm creating a significant new pool of resources to support our work. I've asked Provost Carol Simon and Vice President of Student Life Rhosetta Rhodes, in consultation with Chief Diversity Officer Larry Burnley, ASWU President Justin Botejue and others, to lead this effort and to seek the input and support of students, faculty, staff, and alumni as they use these new resources to advance our goals.

Out of the confusion and pain of this event, Whitworth now has the responsibility to lead. The gospel of Christ is transformative and has the power to renew broken communities. We will seek the grace of Christ as we extend grace to one another. We will live faithfully into our commitments to love and honor each person made in the image of our Creator, even as we equip graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity.

Grace and peace,

Beck A. Taylor
President


Dear Whitworth community,

The ugliness and sinfulness of racial bigotry, hatred and intolerance are pressing in upon us, and nowhere is this tension playing out more dramatically than on our country's college campuses.

Whitworth's commitment to diversity, equity and inclusion is rooted in the Gospel of Jesus Christ. If Whitworth is to claim any degree of success in living faithfully into its Christ-centered mission, that success must be based on our creation of a learning community that acknowledges, places priority upon, and genuinely includes people of all cultures, races and ethnicities. Those who question why we are confronting these tough questions need look no further than the person of Christ and this university's unwavering commitment to serve our creator through higher education.

Whitworth's mission statement reads, in part, that through mind-and-heart education, the university will equip its graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. During this Advent season, it's important for us to remember that Jesus came into our world to deliver peace, but that peace can't be and isn't a true shalom unless it addresses sin. And racism is sin.

Jesus was a radical activist who upset the social norms and conventions of his day to point to a new reality – the Kingdom of God, as he called it – a society based upon peace, unity, justice, equity, and love. It was and is a kingdom that tears down the dividing walls of hostility between God and his creation and among the diverse people of God.

Precisely because of our Christ-centered commitments, we here at Whitworth are more, not less, motivated to seek to build a community that honors all people. Jesus spent his ministry with outsiders. He sought to name and include those at society's margins, those whose voices were muted or silenced by the power structures of his day. Jesus reserved his harshest criticism and judgment for those on the inside: power brokers who wielded their might to shut others out. He gave voice to the voiceless, and sought to deliver the oppressed. Jesus condemned those who thought they knew it all – those who, through their own twisted misunderstanding of God's order, attempted to drown out the voices of the ones who were deemed second-class citizens. His kingdom is one where the last shall be first, and where the master will bow to the servant.

At Whitworth, although we honor and serve a perfect God, we are an imperfect and sinful community. As such, we must confess that Whitworth will never live fully into its commitments to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. But we will not allow our shortcomings as an institution to stand in the way of our calling to become more like Christ in every way, including living out our sacred commitments to honor and include all people.

As a nation and society, we have failed to fulfill the commitments our country made soon after its founding. I believe that what we are now hearing in the voices of righteous indignation from our brothers and sisters of color is an understandable outcry: "How long must we wait for the fruits of the promises made so long ago?"

As a university, Whitworth has also failed. If our goal is full inclusion and a community that consistently lives out the gospel message of unity that distinguishes among neither male nor female, Jew nor Gentile, rich nor poor, black nor white, then we have surely missed that mark. And from God, and from one another, we ask for forgiveness and for the courage and perseverance to press forward together, in Christ.

Lest some think that Whitworth is immune to the challenges we read about or see on television, let me remind us all that many of the issues being addressed by students on other college campuses are ones we face right here at Whitworth. They include systemic racism; incidents of macro- and micro-aggression; the lack of faculty and staff of color; the absence of a truly integrated curriculum that gives voice to learned and diverse scholars across the disciplines; and the paucity of support structures that assist all students in their quest to graduate and succeed in the world.

As your president, I ask for your continued grace and forgiveness for any failure on my part to lead this place to these important outcomes more quickly. I also ask for your prayers as we continue to develop resources at Whitworth to expedite our fulfillment of the goals we all share.

As I've said, we've come nowhere close to arriving at our destination, but I think it is important and fair to acknowledge at least some of the ways in which Whitworth is giving significant attention to these issues. They include the following:

the establishment of a senior administrative chief diversity officer (rare among CCCU campuses);
the comprehensive assessments conducted two years ago by Halualani and Associates that have guided and informed our process to date;
the building of new collaborative structures like the Institutional Diversity Committee and the Diversity Cabinet, and their ongoing work to develop a comprehensive diversity action plan;
the funding of a new position in the Intercultural Student Center focused on diversity, equity and inclusion;
significant growth in operating budgets for diversity initiatives, including the new #WhitworthUnited campaign; and
recruitment and retention efforts aimed at increasing the success rates of students from traditionally underrepresented racial and ethnic populations, including first-generation college students.
These are just a few of the efforts Whitworth is making. But more is required, and the needs are urgent.

One of the most important things we can do as the Whitworth family is to listen and learn from one another. That is the primary responsibility of a university community. May God continue to forgive us when we fall short of the glory and unity of his kingdom, and may he equip us, by his grace, to strive to fulfill the calling he has given us, to be a unified people of grace and truth. God bless you, and may God bless our efforts.

Sincerely,

Beck A. Taylor
President


Dear Whitworth community,

Today, April 7, is a day on which institutions of higher education around the country are expressing their support for the undocumented students on their campuses, as well as for those who aspire to study and learn at colleges and universities in the U.S. At Whitworth, we have attempted to be unequivocal in our support for providing an education of mind and heart, deeply rooted in the Christian faith, "to all lovers of truth and learning," to quote George F. Whitworth, regardless of immigration status. Today, in conjunction with this national effort, I want to voice my ongoing personal support, and Whitworth's sustaining commitment, to serving our undocumented students. At the core of this commitment is our pursuit of access, equal opportunity and social justice, each rooted in the Gospel of Christ.

Further, I'm grateful that Washington state passed the REAL Hope Act, Washington's version of the Dream Act, signed into law in 2014, which grants unfettered access to both in-state tuition and state financial aid for all undocumented students. Many of Whitworth's undocumented students are able to pursue their higher-education goals because of the institutional support that Whitworth offers and the Washington State Need Grant funds they have received.

What is most important about today is the opportunity to express our gratitude for the multitude of ways in which Whitworth's undocumented students contribute to the life and mission of the university. Whitworth is a stronger institution because of their presence.

I'm happy that Whitworth has a student club, the Spokane Dream Project, that is led by and for undocumented students so that issues important to them, and to all of us by extension, can be brought to our attention. Additionally, using funds from a #WhitworthUnited grant, we are planning to host an undocumented immigrant conference for students and educators alike.

In the coming weeks, I'll be meeting once again with Whitworth's undocumented students to see how we can continue to support them as they pursue their dreams. For more information about supporting undocumented students, please visit www.wadreamcoalition.org.

Blessings,

Beck


Dear Whitworth community,

Like many of you, I stayed awake into the early hours of the morning yesterday watching election results. And like many of you, I spent the rest of the day processing my own thoughts about the election's outcomes and listening to others doing the same. I'm on my own journey as I try to think well and pray about my attitudes and responses in the wake of one of the most unusual and acrimonious general elections in U.S. history. A previously scheduled opportunity to speak at last night's AWAKE Ministries compelled me to put some of my thoughts down on paper and to communicate, as best I could, about what I'm currently thinking. I want to share just a little of that with you now.

First, I want to acknowledge that people are feeling a range of emotions right now. Some feel vindicated and affirmed. Others feel victimized and vulnerable. Many are confused and are searching for ways to make sense of what they are seeing and hearing. Most of us are thinking about our own personal responsibilities in the wake of the results. And some of us, including me, are pondering Whitworth's institutional responsibilities.

Before I continue, I want to reaffirm unequivocally Whitworth's commitments to being a fair, just, inclusive and loving place for all of our university's students, employees and guests. This university stands for the safety and dignity of all persons. As a community, we have no tolerance for hate or violence directed toward any group of people, including women, immigrants, international guests, undocumented persons, the disabled, Muslims, persons of color and sexual minorities. It's our Christ-centered mission that informs this posture, and I'm committed to ensuring that Whitworth stands for grace and peace in a world too often characterized by anger and violence. If you call Whitworth your home, we are glad you're here, and we reaffirm our welcome and acceptance.

For those of us who are Christ followers, we acknowledge that we are citizens of two kingdoms. The first, our earthly realm, is temporal, decaying, chaotic and sin-filled. The second, the Kingdom of God, is eternal, righteous, just and ordered. We are immersed in the first kingdom. We inhabit the second kingdom only partially, and we get only glimpses of its reality. It is the supplanting of the earthly kingdom by God's heavenly kingdom that animated the life and atoning death of Jesus Christ, and it's in that same redemptive story that God invites all of us to participate. Jesus gave us a roadmap to find his kingdom: "Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, and mind…and love your neighbor as yourself." The first part of that commandment reconciles us to God. The second part reconciles us to one another. For the Christian, all of politics and public policy can be boiled down to this one question: How do we best love our neighbor?

As people with diverse experiences, different perspectives and creative minds, faithful people can and do disagree about the best ways to love our neighbors, and to bring about the justice, mercy and human flourishing that characterize God's kingdom. That is why faithful people can be found in every major political party and why these same people end up on opposite sides of important issues. Some of the most faithful, Jesus-loving people I know are Republicans. Some of the most faithful, Jesus-loving people I know are Democrats. That we end up advocating for different ways to love our neighbors has never bothered me. In fact, it encourages me, because it is within that creative tension that truth can best be found. By the way, it's this same tension between competing ideas that serves as the foundation of Whitworth's educational mission.

Determining the best ways to love our neighbors is often cast as a political contest. And, as with many contests, power and authority are at stake and are determined by who "wins." Winning and losing characterizes our political world, and for 240 years, the United States has withstood the inherent tensions embedded in our fiercely contested political battles. To quote President Obama from yesterday, "The peaceful transition of power is one of the hallmarks of our democracy." But, as with many contests, the search for and acquisition of power can expose the worst in human character. We are reminded that our wonderful democracy is filled with deeply flawed human beings, people just like you and me, on all sides.

Finally, I want to highlight a challenge that many of us face as we navigate the highs and lows of the political process. It's true that the stakes are high and the issues are profoundly important. But Christians cannot forget which and whose kingdom will ultimately triumph. Faithful people must remember that God is sovereign over our earthly kingdom and the kingdom that is coming. Frankly, while the day-to-day skirmishes in our political battles are important and interesting, the end of this cosmic story is already known. Love wins, and loving our neighbor becomes perfected. God's people are the ones who don't think a presidential election means either the salvation of the universe (because we know that's already happened), or the end of the world (because we know that's what must happen for God's kingdom to be ushered in). God's people are those who – even as they work diligently for the common good and actively protect the marginalized – refrain from placing our entire hope and faith in the outcome of one election, or in one politician, and who, rather, place their hope and faith in the One who is writing the end of the story. Even with that assurance, let's always commit ourselves to being agents of God's love and mercy in this world and be sure to reach out to those, winners or losers, who may be feeling vulnerable right now.

Let's continue this journey together as we pray for the peace of Christ to inspire our community. Thank you for making Whitworth what it is.

Blessings,

Beck A. Taylor | President


I am humbled and honored to be a part of this important celebration. There are many in this community who are much more deserving than I to stand here and speak to you this morning. But as someone who sees himself as an ally in fighting for racial justice and reconciliation in our community; and as someone who leads an institution of higher learning dedicated, in part, to educating and equipping our community to recognize and lift up those who are marginalized and discriminated against, and to tearing down the walls of hatred and fear; and as someone who has gone through my own personal journey of discovering my role in this great, cosmic journey toward justice, I am happy to stand before you today to express my solidarity and my willingness to show up, speak out, and be counted when the trumpets for justice sound.

I want to speak briefly this morning on what it means to be an ally. Being an ally in the cause of justice doesn't look the same for everyone. But there are common threads in the stories of people who lay down their lives in service of those whose lives are marked by a chronic struggle for justice and in service to righteous ideals and values that oppose those who would demean the humanity of others and oppress the causes of freedom and equality.

My own story begins with an important and sobering reality. And that is that I personally benefit from privileges and power that are a function of my skin color as well as, perhaps, my gender, my citizenship, my health, and any number of other personal characteristics that are largely unmerited and unearned and that should not correlate directly with my position in society or with the opportunities I've been given. I don't say these things out of guilt. Most of us can acknowledge that we are largely the products of our circumstances, and we cannot claim credit for many of the things that cause us to climb higher or that hold us back. But the mere recognition of where one stands in society on the spectrum of power and privilege is an important first step in recognizing one's calling as an ally. In the Gospel of Luke, Jesus said, "From everyone who has been given much, much will be demanded; and from the one who has been entrusted with much, much more will be asked." Friends, most of us in this room today can claim to have been given much in life. That recognition compels us to "do much" in service to others.

A second important step in my own journey to becoming an effective ally in the fight for justice and equality is this: to admit that the social forces, the prejudices and stereotypes, and the structures and systems in our economic, educational, and social arrangements that have led, in part, to my own position of power in this community are the same flawed systems that have served as a yoke of oppression, cruelty, disadvantage, and inhumanity for many of my neighbors. There is no doubt in my mind that racism and discrimination are sins. But they are not just my sins, or your sins, or the other person's sins. They are our sins. The scourge of racism has a sum that is greater than its parts. We must recognize that systemic and structural forms of oppression exist all around us. And it takes real courage to chip away at the same stepping stones of power that elevated many of us to the top of the pyramid in order to level the playing field and create opportunities for others. That's what real allies do.

In addition to being willing to admit to and own one's own power and privilege – to recognize that each of us has indeed been given much – and to understanding the prevailing systems and structures that have contributed to sustaining cultures and outcomes of unjust discrimination, there's one more important step in being a friend and ally in this noble cause. And that is to show up and be counted among those who devote their lives to ensuring that the chains of oppression and discrimination are broken. You see, I can readily admit to my own privileges, and I can study historical and structural sources of bias and racism, all from the safe confines of my own world – in my case, the ivory tower of education. But until you and I are willing to step out of our own worlds and into the worlds occupied by the tired and downtrodden, the oppressed, and other agents of justice and mercy, we cannot truly count ourselves among those allies who are serving this righteous cause.

No, to be counted among that group, you and I need to step out of our comfort zones, to link arms with those who stand in this fight for freedom – people who may be very different from ourselves – and to risk something. Dr. King risked everything. And he gave everything, even his life. "Greater love has no one than this: to lay down one's life for his friends."

Dr. King wasn't always understood. Drum majors for justice and change rarely are. In April 1963, Dr. King went to Birmingham, Ala. Many of his fellow clergy members felt strongly that he shouldn't travel there, and they cited various reasons to keep him from going. In a letter written from his Birmingham jail cell and smuggled out on bits and pieces of paper, Dr. King responded to his critics by stating, "I am in Birmingham because injustice is here."

Friends, Spokane citizens, lovers of justice, allies for equality, we are here today because injustice is here, in our community and in our nation. And whenever and wherever injustice rears its evil head, we will show up. We will be counted.

Today isn't a check-the-box day. After this rally, we won't simply go back to our homes and places of work and worship, wasting the next 364 days until we gather again to remember Dr. King. No, we will use this day to commence our year of steadfast and inspired work to bring justice, equality, fairness, love and shalom to our communities, and to work side-by-side with our brothers and sisters to tear down the walls of hostility and hatred in our midst. Today, and every day, we are all allies in this cause.

May God bless each of you as you work for the causes of freedom and justice here and elsewhere. Thank you.


Welcome to spring semester. I pray that Jan Term Break provided time for some rest, relaxation and/or recreation for you. The last week has brought just the opposite to many members of our community who are directly or indirectly affected by an executive order on immigration issued by the White House last week. In addition, continued uncertainty regarding the status of Whitworth's undocumented students adds to the anxiety many of our students and their families are feeling right now. Regardless of our individual political leanings, I call on members of the Whitworth community to rally around all students, staff and faculty – regardless of nationality or status – with prayer, love and support. That's the Whitworth way.

Please forgive this rather lengthy message, but I want to communicate about the recent events that have an immediate impact for various groups of students and other community members at Whitworth, and I'd like to discuss Whitworth's responses to these challenges. To assist anyone who is seeking more information and resources, Whitworth is hosting a forum titled "#WhitworthUnited: Supporting our Undocumented and International Students, Faculty and Staff," tomorrow, Feb. 3, in Robinson Teaching Theatre, from 3-5 p.m. This will be an opportunity for the Whitworth community to come together and gain information about the university's position, as well as about how to support members of our community affected by recent developments concerning immigration. An attorney from the Northwest Justice Project will provide information and answer questions. All faculty, staff and students are welcome to attend.

On Jan. 13, a group of concerned undocumented students and their allies delivered to my office a petition containing more than 1,000 signatures urging me to declare Whitworth a "sanctuary campus." The petition was generated as a result of the uncertainty that currently surrounds President Trump's unknown plans regarding President Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive order. This executive order, still in effect, grants immigration-enforcement officials prosecutorial discretion to forego taking action against undocumented students studying at U.S. institutions of higher learning and to grant such students worker permits. During the course of the presidential campaign, and during the early days of the Trump administration, conflicting signals have been sent regarding the president's plans to extend, modify, or discontinue DACA.

Although immigration policy is complex, and faithful and thoughtful people can and do disagree about particular components of such policy, I have taken action to encourage President Trump and lawmakers to extend protections for undocumented students studying in the U.S. My highest and most sacred responsibility as president of Whitworth University is to ensure the health, welfare and safety of our current students. Whitworth has a number of undocumented students who are important and loved members of our learning community. They contribute greatly to the life and mission of the university. Simply put, they are us, and we are Whitworth. To that end, I have urged President Trump to extend the protections provided under DACA, and I have lobbied Congress to immediately pass The Bridge Act, a bipartisan effort sponsored by U.S. Senators Graham and Durbin to extend DACA protections for the next three years while Congress debates a more permanent solution. Additionally, I traveled to Washington, D.C., to meet personally with U.S. Congresswoman Cathy McMorris Rodgers and U.S. Senators Patty Murray and Maria Cantwell, among other legislators, imploring all of them to recognize the importance and urgency of this matter. I will continue to advocate for our undocumented students' ability to remain at Whitworth and continue with their studies.

The term "sanctuary campus" is vague and highly charged. It seems to have more utility in making political statements than in ensuring any real and meaningful protection for undocumented persons. While I am not inclined to use such terminology to describe Whitworth, I am eager to implement a number of policies and practices that will contribute to our undocumented students' sense of welcome and safety in the Whitworth community.

In a meeting I had with the student leaders of this effort, we were able to begin a conversation that will continue – one that also yielded a number of things that we can do now to support our students. First, I assured them that Whitworth would not voluntarily cooperate with immigration officials or agencies, nor would we voluntarily share information regarding the details of Whitworth's undocumented students with any law-enforcement agency unless compelled by an official court order, warrant or subpoena. But outside of such compelling action, I pledged that Whitworth would work to ensure our students' current status as registered students.

In addition, I am asking various offices around the university to take actions that extend particular support to our undocumented students. These actions include, but aren't necessarily limited to, the following:

Continue meeting with undocumented students to better understand their concerns; Identify and reach out to other vulnerable populations of students, including international students and Muslim students.
Reaffirm institutional principles and values, underscoring policies for free expression and inclusion, expressing support for students enrolled in the DACA program, and committing to support community members as much as possible while complying with the law.
Meet with local, state and federal elected officials and policymakers to advocate for extensions of DACA and other legislation to support undocumented students.
Develop "Know Your Rights" documents and other materials to provide helpful information to undocumented students.
Open a line of communication on these issues with the Spokane Police Department and the Spokane County Sheriff's Department.
Discuss these issues with Whitworth Security staff and train them in the implementation of policies.
Train and inform faculty and staff who are likely "first points of contact" for immigration or law-enforcement officials.
Discuss study-abroad requirements and the process to waive such requirements for students who are unable to travel.
Provide certain legal assistance to undocumented students.
Consider alternative employment opportunities for undocumented students who are currently on work-study, should changes be made to work authorization.
Notify the student health and counseling center to prepare staff for the potential needs of undocumented students.
Discuss how academic and vocational counseling should reflect various constraints to educational training paths that require certain employment-authorization documents.
As I mentioned, this is a beginning, and I look forward to continuing to work with Whitworth's undocumented students and their allies to ensure that they can finish their educational journeys at Whitworth and flourish after graduation.

As a university, we hold fast to the value that the presence of international students, staff and faculty on our campus, regardless of nationality and religion, are integral to our mission and vision to equip all members of our community to be interculturally competent global citizens. We want our current and prospective international students to know that they are welcomed and loved on our campus.

When in Washington, D.C., earlier this week, I also spoke with lawmakers about President Trump's recent executive order concerning visa entry bans from selected countries. In those conversations, I emphasized the importance that our students from these countries, as well as all of Whitworth's international students, bring to Whitworth.

Last week's executive order banned nationals from the following Muslim-majority countries from entering the U.S. for a period of at least 90 days: Iran, Iraq, Libya, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, and Yemen. The visa ban situation is fluid and evolving rapidly as the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups including Washington state's attorney general present legal challenges to the executive order. Whitworth's administration is closely monitoring all immigration information released by the White House and other agencies so that we can determine its possible impact upon our students and support them in the most effective ways.

Students from countries named in the entry ban should not travel outside the U.S. at this time, and traveling on airlines within the U.S. may also pose some risk. They will likely not be able to reenter during the 90-day period. Please note that there is no indication at present on whether the ban will be lifted in 90 days. The executive order, as it was written, gives broad discretionary power to U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents to question and deny entry to any individual, regardless of his or her nationality or country of origin. While the orders are in effect, we strongly recommend that students from other countries consider delaying any unnecessary travel abroad, including to Canada, as there is no guarantee that their reentry to the U.S. will be allowed.

On all of these issues, Whitworth is in the process of developing a website with resources for our international, immigrant and undocumented students. This website will be available soon. Please do not hesitate to reach out to the staff of the International Education Center and Intercultural Student Center for information and support.

These are uncertain days. Many, including me, are confused about what the future will hold for students and community members whom we know and love dearly. Although these actions impact a relatively small group of Whitworth's community, they impact all of us by extension. George Whitworth envisioned an institution of higher learning that would open its doors "to all lovers of truth and learning." May the ways we think, pray, discuss and live out our commitments always seek to "honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity." I'm hopeful for the future because I put my hope in Christ. May we be faithful as we seek to be the hands and feet of Christ to all who consider Whitworth their home.

Peace,
Beck A. Taylor | President


Last week I informed you that Whitworth would no longer offer credit-bearing service-learning or internship opportunities with Planned Parenthood. As I said in my original statement, this was a very difficult decision for me, but that it best positioned the university, in my opinion, to live into its Christian and educational commitments while also allowing for robust disagreement on this issue. I know that many of you don't agree with my decision, while many others of you have expressed your support. We are a divided campus, community, church and nation on this issue.

Although I was aware of disagreement on this campus around issues of abortion and choice, I was not aware that the university had a formal partnership with Planned Parenthood until last fall when The Whitworthian highlighted it. After investigating the details of the relationship, and after discussing its implications with cabinet members and trustees, and after much personal prayer and reflection, I decided that I would have never endorsed, nor would the board of trustees ever allowed, such a partnership to exist in the first place, as it represents for me, and for the board, a step too far toward one side in this contentious political, social, and moral controversy.

It's important for me to acknowledge that my decision isn't about staking out the "correct" Christian claims on this issue. I know very faithful people, including many of you, who support Planned Parenthood, the broader pro-choice movement, and/or access to safe abortions. Rather than intending to cast judgement, my decision simply reflects the position that supporting Planned Parenthood on this campus is too contentious for many as we dialogue on this issue.

Please allow me to present at least one line of reasoning that could lead to my conclusion. Again, allow me to underscore that this isn't the only way one could faithfully and thoughtfully approach this issue, but it is meant to highlight how some might see a connection to Planned Parenthood as a move too far in one direction, and that the removal of our formal relationship could restore an appropriate posture for the university to address more nuanced questions on this topic, some of which I'll present later. Here is that line of reasoning:

As a Christian institution of higher learning, Whitworth should stand for many things. One of them should be equality and justice for women. Another is life.

Galatians 3:28 reminds us that in God's economy, "There is no longer Jew or Greek, there is no longer slave or free, there is no longer male and female; for all of you are one in Christ Jesus." This and other biblical passages persuade many Christians that the church should stand in opposition of forces that demean, marginalize and subjugate women. Jesus elevated the role of women in his culture, and many Christians have fought hard for the rights of women in today's society. Much more work remains, on this campus and around the world.

Many in the church are persuaded that Christian scriptures also teach us that God's creation is sacred, and that there's nothing more valued and loved by God than human beings, each one made in God's image. Psalm 139, a text from which I preached this spring here in chapel, reminds us that God carefully "knit" us together in our mothers' wombs, that each person is "fearfully and wonderfully made," and Jeremiah 1:5 confirms to many that the Creator knows us well, even before we are born. Throughout the millennia, many Christians have honored and sought to protect that which God has so intentionally and lovingly created.

So as a campus community grounded in a mission that seeks to "honor God, follow Christ, and serve humanity," elevating both of these values can, and some would argue should be, part of our work together. But many in our community question whether one justice must come at the expense of another injustice, and wonder whether popular culture has made it impossible to simultaneously be pro-women and pro-life. Indeed, some would argue that organizations like Planned Parenthood have confused these ideals to the point that it is perceived that people who support the important goods that Planned Parenthood provides, including much needed access to quality women's health care, must also support the practice of abortion. That is what makes Planned Parenthood so controversial to many, according to this line of reasoning. For many in the Whitworth community, it is simply inconceivable that a self-described Christ-centered institution would directly or indirectly support an organization that performs more than 300,000 abortions each year, despite the other beneficial services that organization provides to women and families.

Now, I don't for a second believe that everyone here aligns herself or himself with the perspectives I've just shared, and again, I'm not suggesting that they are the correct way to approach these issues. But I can tell you honestly that these perspectives are indeed shared by many Whitworthians, and along with the persuasive arguments from pro-choice, pro-Planned Parenthood quarters, helped to form my decision that a formal relationship with Planned Parenthood wasn't best for Whitworth's attempts to finely tune our balance in order to provide constructive, generative spaces for people to disagree on this issue.

Some of you have expressed your disappointment that removing this relationship with Planned Parenthood is a signal that the university is privileging the pro-life position, or that it is moving the university farther from the "narrow ridge" of faithful disagreement. I concede that could be a valid perception. But I would ask how having a relationship with Planned Parenthood might look to others who could also see the participation with an organization that provides abortions as step off the "narrow ridge" in the other direction. Had we publically announced a new relationship with Planned Parenthood, there would be many people who could justifiably make some of the very same arguments I'm hearing today from those who object to my decision. It's interesting that removing our relationship with Planned Parenthood has been seen as taking sides, but having that relationship with Planned Parenthood in the first place isn't. It highlights a point that I know isn't lost on many of you, and that is although the narrow ridge metaphor is a useful one, and I'm thankful for it, like all metaphors, it has its limitations. Perhaps we should see the narrow ridge more as an ideal and less as a practical and completely realized set of conditions.

That's what makes this decision so difficult for me, as I see my most important role as president to sustain and advance the educational mission we cherish so deeply, and to allow the university to embrace its mission to be both open and faithful. Many good people may disagree with me, but ultimately, I've decided that our mistake was not removing the links between Whitworth and Planned Parenthood as we have done, but rather establishing those formal links in the first place. Again, I acknowledge that faithful, thoughtful people who care for Whitworth as much as I do can disagree with my decision, and I respect that. But, alas, the burden falls to me.

Before I conclude and take your questions and comments, I want to reiterate some of the commitments I made in my original statement. First, this decision is in no way intended to infringe upon the rights or freedoms to disagree on this or any other controversial issue. Whitworth is a university, and as such, we should welcome opinions and perspectives contrary to our own. Faculty members and students have the academic freedom and responsibility to explore and create. Speakers and artists, even those from Planned Parenthood or other pro-choice and pro-life groups, will be welcomed to campus to promote healthy and constructive dialogue.

Let me give you just a few of the moral and theological questions that I hope we can tackle together as we engage in critical thinking on these difficult issues:

Are there instances when abortion is the least tragic action to take in our fallen world? If so, what are those circumstances? Who is in the best position to decide when such circumstances are present? What would be the implications of the answers to those questions for laws concerning abortion?
What is the optimal relationship between legality and morality? Should everything that is immoral be legally prohibited? If not, which moral wrongs should be legally prohibited?
What does a well-developed Christian theological ethic have to say about when a human fetus becomes a human person or human soul? What does such an ethic say about circumstances in which continuing a pregnancy is likely to cause the death of a pregnant woman? What does such an ethic say about the relationship of its moral requirements to how Christians should try to shape laws in a pluralistic society?
How should Christians support women with difficult pregnancies – pregnancies that are not just personally inconvenient, but which disrupt their employment or threaten their health, or pregnancies that result from rape, incest, or within abusive marriages?
Is there any inconsistency, morally and biologically, in maintaining that contraception is morally permissible but thinking that abortion is always morally impermissible? Does the answer to that question vary depending on the method of contraception (IUD, condom, the pill, vasectomy, tubal ligation, abortifacients, etc.)?
Should all Christians be concerned about what past Popes have called a "contraceptive culture" in which whether and when to have children is too often viewed as on par with what kind of house to buy rather than as something that requires prayerful discernment? If so, what should Christians be doing about this?
These are just a few of the questions a Christian liberal arts university should be asking, and which point to moral and theological complexity rather than support conservative or liberal extremes.

Second, although the university has not approved a charter for a Planned Parenthood sponsored club on campus, I have asked Rhosetta Rhodes, Whitworth's vice president of student life, to convene a representative task force to think more intentionally about how the charter-approving process, a process that involves both ASWU and the administration, can lead to a more equitable treatment of student organizations, specifically with respect to outside sponsorship and funding. I concede that this decision has highlighted for me and others some potential inequities, previously unrecognized, that need to be addressed sooner than later, and you have my commitment to do just that.

Finally, on a personal note, I know that people are upset with me. Others have voiced their support. But people in my role learn very quickly that leaders who only seek popularity often fail the people and organizations they steward. Some have tried to conflate the timing of my decision with our nation's larger political discussions, or to even correlate the decision with my own political preferences, or with an attempt to assuage certain financial contributors to the university. I categorically reject those suggestions – indeed, on the last point, there are certainly easier ways to raise money than to knowingly incite controversy.

My biggest lament in all of this has been the way this decision has divided our community and caused some to question my commitments or the values and principles of this university. The intended educational outcomes of a university should not include agreement. But I do think one of our goals should be the fostering of understanding. My prayer is that Whitworth can continue to create and sustain a community of diverse and faithful perspectives, and that our community would be defined not by the intensity of our disagreement, but rather by the charity of our discourse.


As a Christ-centered university, Whitworth's mission is to honor God, follow Christ, and serve all of humanity. In our fractured world, we seek truth and work for justice. I am anguished about the recent events occurring in Charlottesville. That our nation continues to deal with shameless and violent racism is both maddening and sad for those who are working to create communities that embrace diversity, equity and inclusion, and that elevate and celebrate the image of our creator in all humans. I know I speak on behalf of all faculty, staff and students at Whitworth when I say that these events will only strengthen our collective resolve to confront the evil and sin of racism, and to work and think hard about how to create a world that extinguishes all forms of bigotry and hatred and that reflects the grace and truth of Christ. Our prayers remain with the victims of violence in Virginia and across the world.

Beck

Beck A. Taylor | President


Dear Whitworth Community,

The Trump administration announced today that it is rescinding President Obama's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) executive order. That order, among other things, granted immigration-enforcement officials prosecutorial discretion to forego taking action against undocumented students studying at U.S. institutions of higher learning, and it granted such students worker permits.

I am on record voicing my strong opposition to this policy change, as it undercuts and ignores, in my opinion, the real stories of human beings across the country who were brought into the U.S. as undocumented children, and for whom the U.S. is the only home they've ever known. To their credit, these young people have become integrally woven into our communities and institutions, and they have blessed the same with their talents and dedication. As such, Whitworth has invited undocumented students to be a part of our learning community for many years, and Whitworth is a stronger, more culturally rich community as a result.

I have stated before that my highest and most sacred responsibility as Whitworth's president is to ensure the health, welfare and safety of our current students. That extends to all students, especially those who find themselves and their families affected by this decision. Whitworth must walk a narrow ridge between being, at once, an institution that respects and adheres to the laws and regulations of this country, and a community that stands in faithful solidarity with the marginalized in our midst. That is my commitment.

I will continue to lobby lawmakers vigorously to find permanent legislative remedies to address this complex problem, and in doing so, I will stress that these remedies must reflect justice and compassion. As I do that, Whitworth will continue to live into the promises I made last year. These include an assurance that Whitworth will not voluntarily cooperate with immigration officials or agencies, nor will it voluntarily share information regarding the details of Whitworth's undocumented students with any law-enforcement agency, unless compelled by an official court order, warrant or subpoena. Additionally, university officials will continue to meet with undocumented students to provide any resource at our disposal to help them navigate this uncertain time and to ensure they are able to study, work and thrive at Whitworth. To that end, Whitworth has established a webpage with resources for undocumented students. That page will be continually updated with additional information and resources that we hope are helpful.

No matter where you personally stand on larger immigration policies, I hope you will join me in expressing our love and concern for these students and their families. They are us, and we are Whitworth. Please pray for them, the broader Whitworth community, and our nation's leaders. May Christ's peace and justice reign.

Blessings,
Beck

Beck A. Taylor | President


The title I chose for my convocation address today is, "The University and Moral Clarity." It is a direct rip off from the title of an article that appeared three weeks ago in the Chronicle of Higher Education. That article was titled, "For Moral Clarity, Don't Look to Universities." It was a timely and compelling opinion piece written by Chad Wellmon, one of the newest faculty members at the University of Virginia.

You may recall that the University of Virginia, that venerable institution of higher learning founded by none other than Thomas Jefferson, and located in Charlottesville, was the epicenter last month of one of the ugliest public demonstrations of overt racism, hatred and bigotry our county has seen in quite some time. Who could have imagined that in 2017, hundreds of white supremacists and neo-Nazis would be so bold as to carry lit torches onto the grounds of the university there in Charlottesville, right onto the lawn of the hallowed Academical Village at UVA, chanting slogans like, "Jews will not replace us," and "Blood and Soil," eerie echoes of similar mantras heard in 1930s Nazi Germany? How many of us shuttered to see such blatant hatred expressed towards Blacks and other non-white races shouted from legions of mostly white men dressed in khakis and polo shirts, elevating not only flaming torches that evening, but also symbols of white nationalism, including the Confederate Flag – not (as they claimed) to celebrate and protect Southern culture and history, but rather to bully and to intimidate, to threaten and to spew venom? As I watched news reports of these events, it was as if I was having an out of body experience. I was numb in disbelief.

Chad Wellmon, the author of the article, viewed this nefarious demonstration out of the front window of his small campus apartment where he lives with his wife and children, and where he serves as principal of Brown College, one of UVA's residential colleges. It was a frightening scene, as Wellmon describes it. But Wellmon wrote his article not just to provide a riveting first-hand account of the riots that evening, but to argue a point that I want to consider briefly this morning. And that point is this, according to the author: That the contemporary university is "institutionally incapable of moral clarity."

Right or wrong, Wellmon's critique is a scathing one, particularly when one traces the history of so many of this country's finest colleges and universities back to founding Christian congregations, churches and denominations. Now, I realize that the University of Virginia has always been a public university, and as such, has always espoused a non-sectarian commitment. UVA does not share a history with, say, Harvard College (which was founded by Puritans and Congregationalists), or Brown University (founded by Baptists), or Whitworth's antecedent, Princeton University (founded by Presbyterians). But Wellmon did not discriminate in making his bold assertion. He wasn't just talking about the University of Virginia. He was directing his critique about the inability to demonstrate moral clarity toward the Academy in general, to all colleges and universities.

Briefly, Wellmon's argument can be summarized this way: The contemporary university – large, complex research universities like UVA and even smaller, more intimate places of learning like Whitworth – are many things to many people. They are "a health center, a federal contractor, a sports franchise, an event venue, and, almost incidentally, a [place] devoted to education and knowledge." As Wellmon reminds us, fifty years ago, Clark Kerr, then president of the University of California, introduced the concept of the "multiversity," describing the modern university as an institution with "little common purpose but the perpetuation of itself and its procedures." So, as Wellmon's argument continues, if students or any other constituency of the modern university want to find moral traction on any contemporary issue, they must look beyond the confines of the institution itself. In other words, any moral relevancy or credibility must be external to the university. As Wellmon suggests to his readers, university presidents like me, or my friend Teresa Sullivan at UVA, are nothing more than "captains of erudition," in the words of early-twentieth century economist Thorstein Veblen, and "not the leaders of a community bound to a common moral mission." To summarize, Wellmon offers this final nail in the coffin: "The university has moral limitations, [and] cannot impart comprehensive visions of the good."

I wonder what George Whitworth, founder of this institution, would say in response to Wellmon's thesis. How would President Frank Warren react? I think I know some of the ways President Bill Robinson would respond. These three presidents of Whitworth, and the other fourteen before me, spent their professional lives articulating a different vision for higher education, and for Whitworth specifically. Whitworth University was founded 127 years ago with a dramatically different set of contrasting foundational principles as those that Wellmon argues. In the mold of many 19th-century church-related colleges and universities, Whitworth was established by the church and for the church, and as such, reflected the Christian church's mission to renew minds and hearts for service to Christ's kingdom through higher education. Encouraging morality, as it were, was (and I would argue still is) at the center of this university's mission. After all, how can we at Whitworth boldly claim a mission that reads, in part, that we will "equip graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity" without concerning ourselves with moral goods? If, as Wellmon suggests, any moral enlightenment that would shape the experiences and learning of our students must be imported from external sources, how could we claim, as we do at Whitworth, to provide an education of mind and heart in service to humanity?

I suspect that Wellmon is very unfamiliar with the landscape of Christian higher education today. A quick look at his resume reveals degrees from UC-Berkeley and (ironically) Davidson College, a former Presbyterian church-related university in North Carolina. To be gracious to Wellmon, his experiences have likely not exposed him to many of the great Christian institutions that continue to dot the landscape of American higher education, places like Whitworth and Wheaton, Calvin and Westmont, Gordon and Hope, just to name a few – places that, although they may differ in some small and some dramatic ways from Whitworth, are still concerned with the moral dimension of education.

If Wellmon did visit Whitworth's campus, I think he would be exposed to a very different way of thinking about the university and its role in discerning moral truths. He would find a university here that is first and foremost a place of real education. We at Whitworth claim, like the late Father Theodore Hesburgh of Notre Dame, that in order to be a great Christian university, Whitworth must first be a great university. Although founded by the church and for the church, Whitworth is not a church. We are an educational institution, and therefore we have a different (although I would argue complementary) set of aspirational principles. We strive to be a place that models intellectual open-mindedness, humility, and curiosity. Founded in the Reformed tradition, Whitworth boldly states that all truth is God's truth, and as God's created, we are free to explore God's creation, wherever those explorations take us, with the confidence that God will meet us at those mysterious destinations. Whitworth's commitment to education pledges it to be a place where orthodoxy and orthopraxy can be challenged with humility, and where dissenting opinions are welcomed in a culture of hospitality and grace. When we are at our best, we have the courage to invite dialogue and opinions onto this campus that may not always represent the mainstream of Christian thinking, if there is such a thing, without thinking that such hospitality threatens either our Christian witness or our university's Christ-centered mission. As our own professor of theology, Jerry Sittser, reminds us, at its best, Whitworth is a bull's-eye institution, and as such, we spend far less time patrolling the boundaries.

But what is our bull's-eye? If Wellmon were to visit Whitworth, I'm confident he would also find a place of deep and faithful conviction – an institution and its people who are persuaded that the Christian faith has many resources to offer the educational enterprise. As a group of Christian scholars, we see the life of the mind as not only a useful pursuit, but also as a worshipful response to a God who has, in God's divine wisdom, gifted us with curious minds, passionate hearts, and a wondrous universe to explore. We at Whitworth, those of us on faculty and staff, and many of you students, believe in the person of Jesus Christ, who was present at creation and redeemed that same creation to himself through death and resurrection. And we believe in the authority of the Christian scriptures as our guide to faith and practice. As we acknowledge and educate our students to the variety of competing worldviews they will encounter beyond the "Pinecone Curtain," Whitworth unashamedly privileges the Christian worldview, informed by the person and teachings of Christ, the Bible, and the witness of the church universal. And importantly, we do not see these additional commitments as burdensome to what would otherwise be a more carefree educational journey, but rather as important resources that contribute substantively to that same journey, and – and here it is – that give us the ability to navigate difficult moral dilemmas in the pursuit of the common good. At Whitworth, we are animated by this notion, and without it, we quickly lose our distinctiveness and value, in my opinion.

As much as I firmly believe in this model of education (one that may be foreign to Chad Wellmon, but should seem familiar to us), I'm troubled at times as I concern myself with its durability in an age of increasing division in society and within the Christian church, and during a time when many people seem to lack the willingness or ability to engage in constructive, civil dialogue on important matters that divide us. In the pursuit of moral discernment and clarity, I'm increasingly persuaded that we might also ask too much of our institutions.

And here is where, perhaps, Wellmon's critique might have some of its origin. As the leader of an historic, missional institution, one with diverse constituencies, and one that attempts to occupy a faithful middle on so many difficult contemporary issues, I have personally observed an increasing number of people who want the institutions, companies, churches, political parties, or products that they frequent, identify with, or use to line up perfectly (and I mean perfectly) with every personal conviction, every theological position, every doctrinal stance, every ethical choice, and even every political figure that they personally espouse. Otherwise, those same institutions, in the eyes of their discriminating constituents, are immediately discardable, written off, and cast aside as morally corrupt, ideologically warped, or simply an embarrassment.

Church pastors tell me frequently that the past several years have been among the hardest they've experienced in ministry because parishioners want to substitute humble biblical teaching and Christ-centered fellowship with fierce and uncharitable political and doctrinal infighting. If a preacher even hints at a discernable biblical truth that cuts across the grain of a deeply held political belief, she receives blistering emails, or critics simply leave the church in search for a better echo-chamber to validate their own perspectives.

I've experienced the same as Whitworth's president. If Whitworth doesn't overtly support and advocate for a particular position on any number of issues – from the environment, to reproductive rights, to the inclusion of LGBT persons, to (and I'm not making this one up) which cola is featured on our athletics scoreboards on campus (Coke or Pepsi), then donations are threatened, scathing Facebook rants are proliferated, members of our community are publically shamed, and the very essence, value and identity of Whitworth is questioned. Institutions, Whitworth included, aren't perfect because they are filled with imperfect people, me chief among them, and they can certainly never reflect perfectly the personal convictions of every single constituent. In their pursuit of moral clarity, institutions will sometimes get it wrong in the eyes of some. And when that happens, constituents should hold their institutions, including Whitworth, accountable in ways that encourage dialogue, foster healthy disagreement, and work for changes that they think are important. But those things are only possible when relationships are maintained, when trust is rediscovered, when grace is extended, when perspectives are challenged, and when empathy is in generous supply.

But getting back to Wellmon's article, my point is this: Perhaps the moral impotency that he describes is a function of the expectations we place on institutions today. I've personally experienced the almost PTSD-like symptoms of fear, nausea, and dread before pushing send on a university communication that I know will insight outrage. Might leaders and institutions be less likely to seek and articulate moral clarity when the stakes are so high, constituents so uncharitable, and with personal reputations hanging in the balance? Is it the case that so many formerly-Christian institutions of higher learning have jettisoned their faithful missions, in part, in the hopes of satisfying increasingly pluralistic and vigilant constituencies? Might Chad Wellmon's disdain for what he saw as a muted and morally ambiguous response from his own university toward the awful events that occurred there be rooted in some way in the inability of institutions and their people to posit what they see as moral clarity without being institutionally and personally smeared? Could our society's inability to have and sustain civil discourse on difficult issues be a function of our own fear of leaning into complex issues that divide us, lest we be quickly labeled as hateful or ignorant? And, importantly for us this morning, might institutions like Whitworth lose their way as a result of these forces?

This year, the Whitworth community will have the chance to think about some of these important issues as I host the President's Colloquy on Civil Discourse. During three evening conversations in October, February and April, my office will be sponsoring an intentional effort to lean into these difficult issues, and to equip our community with some resources that I hope will sustain our distinctive culture and mission. Other efforts at tackling some of these challenges will be offered through ASWU, our Speakers and Artists Series, and other academic presentations. I look forward to the ways these conversations might equip Whitworth's campus. I must confess that I am so very optimistic about this place, mainly because of all of you – students, faculty and staff, alumni and friends.

To close, I find it instructive that at the end of Chad Wellmon's article, he shares that after the frightening events he and his family witnessed in Charlottesville, he and his wife sat his children down and spoke to them in the language of his own faith tradition, "in terms of the image of God, the church, and Christian love." Friends, I'm grateful that Whitworth doesn't need to import these resources, but rather allows us to bring these important commitments with us as we seek the common good, and the flourishing of Christ's kingdom.

May God bless you this semester. Thank you.


Dear Whitworth University Family,

As Whitworth celebrates the conclusion of its 128th year, it's important for all of us who love this place to stop and reflect upon the many ways God has blessed us this past year. July 1 marks the beginning of my ninth year serving you as Whitworth's president. What a joy and privilege it has been to walk this part of the journey with you. When I joined the Whitworth family back in 2010, I could not have imagined then the ways this place would shape me. My prayer each day is that we Whitworthians would always be a reflection of Whitworth's noble mission "to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity."

Whitworth is a place of transformational learning, service and scholarship. Students' lives are shaped and molded as they engage in a world-class education, as they are mentored by competent and caring faculty and staff, and as they learn to form communities that strengthen our society and nation. Today, Whitworth is meeting those promises like never before.

Ask any Whitworth alum, and they will tell you that part of Whitworth's formula for success is the quality of its faculty. Many of Whitworth's faculty could teach anywhere in the world, but they choose Whitworth because they believe in a transformative mind-and-heart education that is centered on the student experience. For these reasons and more, this past year, U.S. News & World Report named Whitworth the best private university in the West for undergraduate teaching, and the No. 8 regional university overall. Students and faculty alike won numerous awards this past year for their academic and scholarly work, proving once again the quality of Whitworth's educational enterprise.

Whitworth's academic quality continues to draw the best students – and in record-setting numbers. This fall, Whitworth will celebrate the largest first-year class and highest overall enrollment in the university's history. Part of that success is Whitworth's unwavering commitment to affordability and access. In the coming year, Whitworth will allocate more than $53.1 million in institutional financial aid. Many of those dollars are directed toward historically underrepresented groups. Nearly 34 percent of the Class of 2022 are domestic students of color, twice the percentage from just a decade ago, and more than 1 of every 3 entering students is a first-generation college student. Additionally, Whitworth will host its largest cohort of international students this fall. Graduate enrollments continue to grow, and Whitworth's innovative evening degree-completion programs offer educational attainment to working adults.

Much of Whitworth's recent success is made possible by the generosity of friends and supporters across the globe. Last October, The Campaign for Whitworth surpassed its original $100 million goal, making it the largest fundraising initiative in the university's history. Currently, more than $112 million has been raised to support scholarships, programs, endowments, facilities and future needs. New facilities like the Cowles Music Center and Beeksma Family Theology Center are transforming the campus landscape, and future facilities like the Athletics Leadership Center and the STEAM (science, technology, engineering, arts and mathematics) "maker space" will continue to equip Whitworth's campus to meet the needs of students for generations to come.

The Whitworth Office of Church Engagement received more than $2 million this year to support outreach to congregations and Christian leaders. Through innovative programs like the Academy of Christian Discipleship, which serves pastoral and lay leaders across the country, and the Summer Ministry Fellows program, which sends more than 70 students per year into congregations around the globe, Whitworth stands as a faithful partner to support the work of the church. At Whitworth, campus ministry serves students with multiple opportunities to grow spiritually and serve their communities. Chapel isn't required at Whitworth, but it's often standing room only, and students connect with other faithful believers in the residence halls, in coffee shops and during Hosanna, just to name a few opportunities.

Whitworth's student-athletes continue to shine in competition and in the classroom. This past year marked the 12th straight year Whitworth Athletics was named the most competitive program in the Northwest Conference. Additionally, once again, Whitworth had more Academic All-Conference representatives than any other NWC program. Substantial renovations are scheduled for the aquatics center, and the new Athletics Leadership Center will bring together for the first time all of our coaches and athletics administration under one roof. Go Bucs! 

So, here's to a great year! Thanks for the many ways you support Whitworth. Have a great summer.

Sincerely,

Beck A. Taylor, Ph.D. | President


This summer, Julie and I celebrated 26 years of marriage. On August 8, 1992, our families and friends gathered at First Baptist Church in Colorado Springs to witness our union. We were just kids then (she was 21 and I was 22), but we thought we had much of the world figured out – or at least I thought I did. But there was no way we could have known the paths we would explore together as we sought to serve God and serve others with our lives. And there was certainly no way we could have ever imagined ourselves here, in 2018, as a part of this incredible Whitworth community. I’ve heard it said that it is a grace that God doesn’t allow us to see our futures, because if we could, most of us would be intimidated and frightened into paralysis by the responsibilities we will hold, the roles we will play, and the challenges we will navigate as our future selves. My 22-year-old self would be terrified by the thought of my 48-year-old self, but I’m so glad I’m here right now, doing this, with you. Nothing makes me happier or more fulfilled.

As I stood there that Saturday back in 1992, looking into the eyes of the woman I love, I made promises – solemn promises. I promised that I would love Julie as unconditionally as I could. I promised that Christ would be my first love, and that together, we would seek to serve Jesus in all that we would do as a married couple. I promised to stand with Julie in sickness and in health, during prosperity and in austerity (we’ve seen all of that by the way), and that in all things, I would respect and honor her as someone made in the likeness of God. I’m not perfect, and neither is Julie. No marriage is perfect. But I can say that, by God’s grace, I have lived faithfully into the promises I made so long ago. And so has she.

Promises are something we learn to make as kids. “Do you promise?” “I promise. Cross my heart, hope to die, stick a needle in my eye.” Promises made and kept by parents, for instance, influence how young children see the world around them. Promises unkept teach us of a world that can disappoint us, and remind us to be careful in whom we place our trust.

New roles and responsibilities, and new chapters in our lives, often provide opportunities to make promises. People entering public life regularly take oaths and make promises to serve the public interest as they begin their important service. Many in public offices and in our military make promises to support and defend the Constitution of the United States, and to fend off enemies both foreign and domestic. To begin one’s service with a promise is thought to set the stage for honesty, integrity, and solemnity as one begins work. Eight years ago, on this very platform, Trustee Walt Oliver led me in making my oath and promise of service to Whitworth. I promised then, as I do today, to faithfully and sensitively administer the affairs of Whitworth University in accordance with the Word of God, the laws of this state and nation, and the policies of the board of trustees, and to support and extend the mission of Whitworth to equip graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. Those are important words, and important commitments. Promises matter.

Promises serve as the backbone of relationships – corporate and individual. Without the trust that accrues when promises are kept, relationships struggle to find traction. This is most easily seen, of course, when trust is destroyed because promises are cast aside. Nothing hurts more than when someone we trust breaks a promise. Nothing can fracture a community more than when its leader neglects honesty and integrity, or doesn’t follow through with commitments.

So promises are important. And as new chapters in our lives are begun, or as fresh relationships are formed, or when we find ourselves at the crossroads of life in new roles with new responsibilities, I think it’s worthwhile to consider the promises we make to ourselves and to others.

We know such promise-making and promise-taking are important aspects of God’s narrative with us. The passage that Tersa read for us this morning marks the beginning of God’s covenant, God’s promise, to God’s people. The God we serve is a God of promises. In that familiar passage, God calls Abraham to service. God asks Abraham to leave all that he knows, to travel to a far-off and unfamiliar land. God asks Abraham to trust God, and to rest in the promises that God makes to Abraham. What were those promises? They were to bless Abraham and Abraham’s descendants; to make a mighty nation out of Abraham’s obedience; and to give Abraham land and security for what would become the nation of Israel. Little did Abraham know that out of God’s promises, promises kept time and time again, God would redeem not only the Jewish people, but would redeem all of us as well. By God’s promises, God would save the world through the person of Jesus Christ, the fulfillment of God’s promises throughout the ages. God makes and keeps promises, and as we’re reminded this morning in this passage, as God reintroduces God’s self to humanity, at the beginning of this new story, God is interested in building a record of trust.

Given all of this, perhaps it’s important for us, the people of Whitworth University, to begin this new chapter in our lives by making promises to one another. For those of us who have called Whitworth home for some time now, reiterating familiar promises has value as it calls us back to our commitments, to our foundations of trust and shared purpose. For those who are new in our community – new students, faculty and staff members – today begins a journey for which promises and commitments made and kept will serve for a lifetime.

What promises do we make to each other in this place that serve as the foundation of our life together in an academic community grounded in faith? Let me make our project easier this morning by thinking a bit about promises the institution – those of us who serve as administrators, faculty and staff members – the promises that we make to you students. Then, we’ll think some about the promises that you students might make to those of us who serve to guide you through your time here at Whitworth.

First the promises Whitworth makes to you students.

The first promise that comes to mind for me is the promise of including all of you as full citizens of this community. We invited you here. And once here, we’ve invited you to make this your home. The relationships between students and the institution has to start with value, respect and agency. Students, Whitworth is nothing without you. Whitworth was built for you. The educational enterprise animates all that we do. So we promise to keep you at the center of our attention. Your needs and your learning will be our top priority. And not for just some of you. We promise to do everything in our power and by God’s grace to ensure that all students are served well here: majority students, students of color, domestic students, international students, first-generation college students, Christians, students of other faiths or of no faith, conservatives, liberals, Republicans and Democrats, sexual minorities, students in the humanities, social sciences, the visual and performing arts, business and education, science and technology. Students, no matter your background, or your experiences, or your interests, no matter which path you took to Whitworth, we promise ourselves this day to serve you.

Another promise that comes to mind is our promise to stretch you in your education at Whitworth. Our faculty want you to grow and learn. There are no shortcuts in that process, and at times it will be painful. Whitworth promises a liberating education, one that will expose you to new ways of thinking, alternative perspectives, all in an effort to expand your view of the world. It’s only from that new vantage point that you can fully and critically discern your own values, beliefs and commitments. Our educational program will ask you to do the things you love, and it will ask you to do the things that terrify you. We promise to require that you read, a lot, and learn to write and express yourselves well. We promise to present ideas that correspond to the ways you see the world. We promise to expose you to ideas that rock your world. We promise to be truth-tellers when it comes to your progress: to reward extraordinary work on your part with good grades, and we promise to reward average work with average grades. We promise that nothing in your educational journey here will be window dressing. Every class, every moment will be designed to help you to grow in wisdom and insight.

Whitworth also promises to see you through to the end. You students have great influence over your own success here. Many of the choices you will make will influence your success. But the institution bears responsibility too. This year, I’m excited to kick off the Pirates Persist Campaign, an all-out effort to move Whitworth from good to great on student retention and graduation rates. Simply put, over the next three years, Whitworth will give singular attention to the ways it can contribute to achieving a 90% first-to-second year retention rate, and an 80% 6-year graduation rate, moving Whitworth into the top 5% of colleges and universities on those measures. We can do it, and we will do it. Students, we promise to think well about your success here.

The covenants and promises between God and Abraham were a two-way street. Yes, it’s true that God’s people weren’t nearly as faithful to upholding their end of the relationship, but God’s relationship with Abraham and Israel expected faithfulness, obedience, and undivided love on the part of the Jewish people. Mutuality is often important when making promises.

Students, I would encourage you to think about the promises you are making to yourselves and to Whitworth as you begin this new year. What commitments will you uphold as you enter into or affirm this relationship? I can’t make your promises for you. Only you can do that. But here are a few suggestions for you to consider. 

First, recognize that you are now a part of a learning community. As such, I ask that you see yourselves as people who have the power to contribute to that community’s health and well-being. You also have the power to destroy it. Because Whitworth is willing to take risks for the sake of learning and growing, we are also vulnerable to those whose actions can rip the fabric of goodwill, trust and unity on this campus. In my eight years as president, I’ve seen it happen. It happens when students don’t treat each other with respect and dignity. It happens when ignorant and sheltered assumptions about the world shape the way we treat others. When students are dismissed because of their nationality, skin color, first language, social status, or politics, people begin to feel less than welcome here. Here are other ways our fragile community can be harmed. By academic dishonesty – taking shortcuts to misrepresent your work or to escape accountability in the learning exercise. By careerism – buying into the idea that the only value provided by a Whitworth education are the credentials it provides to attain the first job or starting salary. By narrowmindedness – by devaluing classes outside of your major or in the shared curriculum, or those you’re required to take. Our community’s fabric is also frayed by intellectual laziness – an unwillingness to attend events and speakers whose ideas are contrary to your own. Or by intellectual hostility – actions taken to silence minority opinions or to prevent the full spectrum of ideas from being heard and judged on their merits. As community members, you students have enormous power and responsibility to shape this place. I hope you will promise today to engage in those behaviors that uphold our values and sustain our community.

Finally, stealing a line from Dr. Leonard Oakland, I ask that you students promise to not give up at the first sign of problems. For you new students at the crossover ceremony, Dr. Oakland wished upon you the problems of life and learning that would grow you into the people God is calling you to be. Dr. Oakland reminded us that we will depend upon God’s grace as we navigate those problems. Students, let me encourage you with this: I am persuaded that you are here at Whitworth by divine providence. Your being here, in this room today, is a sign of God’s grace and love for you. I’m am equally persuaded that the God who called you here to Whitworth didn’t just dump you here to fend for yourselves. Rather, I believe that the same God who called you here is the God who will sustain you here. Promise me, this day, that you will not let the problems of life prevent you from attaining all that you dream of. Promise me – rather, promise yourself – that you will not let the first broken relationship, the first bad grade, the first feeling of not fitting in, the first feeling of homesickness, the first unexpected bump in the road, that you will not allow these things to keep you from achieving the goals you have set for yourself here. Be resilient. Be a little stubborn. And know this, those of us who are here to support you will walk this journey with you, through thick and thin. We want you to succeed. We want nothing more.

And finally, for all of us, as we begin Whitworth’s 129th year of service to higher education and to Christ’s church, I ask that we promise to uphold and extend Whitworth’s mission to provide its diverse students with an education of mind and heart, equipping our graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity. Let’s promise to love each other, to forgive each other freely when we don’t live into the promises I’ve mentioned as fully or faithfully as we’d like, and to being unified in spirit for the welfare of this place we love so deeply, and for the glory of God.

Have a great semester. Thank you.


Dear Whitworth University Family,

When Whitworth welcomed the largest freshman class in its history last September, the 2018-19 academic year promised to be an exciting one, and it certainly lived up to that expectation. By almost any measure, Whitworth had one of its best years in recent memory, and through it all, the university's enduring mission to provide Christ-centered, mind-and-heart education was strengthened for current and future generations of Whitworthians. 

Next year, Whitworth will celebrate the 130th anniversary of its founding. As we look forward to that significant milestone, it is important that we recognize and give thanks for all that God has done this past year in and through our students, employees, alumni and friends.

Whitworth has long sought to provide academically rigorous and relevant programs for its students. One hallmark of that legacy is the university's foundational commitment to the liberal arts. After a nearly three-year process of study and design, Whitworth's faculty approved an exciting, state-of-the art revision to the university's shared curriculum (formerly known as general education). Based on a solid commitment to the integration of Christian faith and learning, the new shared curriculum – a set of courses and experiences required of all undergraduate students – is designed to create lifelong competencies across four domains of inquiry: belief, culture, science and expression. At the heart of the shared curriculum is Whitworth's iconic Core Worldview Studies Program, an experience valued by Whitworthians for nearly 50 years.

In addition to the new shared curriculum, Whitworth has embarked on an aggressive plan to enhance the university's offerings both at the undergraduate and graduate levels. New programs include a B.A. in criminology & criminal justice and master's degrees in Montessori early learning, applied behavior analysis, and gifted & talented education. Additionally, plans are in the works to begin Whitworth's first professional doctoral programs in physical and occupational therapy.

Whitworth students and faculty garnered many distinctions this past year. The forensics team won the National Christian College Forensics Association's national tournament for the seventh time in eight years. Our Ethics Bowl team won the National Intercollegiate Ethics Bowl, marking the team's third national championship in eight years. Dorothy Wang '19, Cheyenne Scherf '19 and alumna Hailey Kirsch '18 were awarded prestigious Fulbright Scholarships. Students from the School of Business won the regional championship in the Chartered Financial Analyst competition for the fifth straight year. Political science major Shannon Price '21 was awarded the prestigious David L. Boren Scholarship, the first time a Whitworth student has received this scholarship. And Hannah Beard '19, a newly minted theology graduate, was awarded a U.S. Department of State Critical Language Scholarship to study Swahili in Tanzania this summer.

Recognition for faculty included Christianity Today naming Haley Goranson Jacob, assistant professor of theology, one of 10 new female theologians to know. Jann Leppien, the Margo Long Chair in Gifted Education, received the 2018 Advocacy Award from the Washington Association of Educators of the Talented and Gifted for her dedication and commitment to championing the academic and social needs of highly capable students. MBA Director Sinead Voorhees was one of the recipients of the 2019 Women in Business Leadership Awards sponsored by Spokane Coeur d'Alene Living. Associate Professor of Economics & Business Vange Ocasio Hochheimer and her husband, Manny MBA '17, were named the 2018 Outstanding Emerging Philanthropists at the Spokane Philanthropy Awards in the fall. Lisa Laurier, chair of the teacher education program and professor of education, received the YWCA's 2018 Women of Achievement Education Award, and she was also awarded a Hagan Foundation grant to continue her groundbreaking literacy work. Finally, the M.J. Murdock Charitable Trust announced Kraig Wheeler, the Hugh W. Johnston Professor of Chemistry, as the 2018 recipient of the Lynwood W. Swanson Scientific Research Award. Wheeler spearheaded the establishment of the university's new crystallography center in Robinson Science Hall, the first integrative applied crystallography center in the Spokane area.

This past year saw students and employees enjoying the newly dedicated Beeksma Family Theology Center and renovated Seeley G. Mudd Chapel, home to the theology department, campus ministry and the Office of Church Engagement. And this summer, several building projects are changing the landscape of Whitworth's beautiful campus. The Athletics Leadership Center – a new $13 million space for Pirate coaches and student-athletes – is under construction near the fieldhouse. Major renovations are also underway at the aquatics center and Cowles Auditorium. Transformations along the recently redesigned Hawthorne Road corridor also continue, including a planned retail location located just west of Hawthorne Hall.

Much of the success of the past several years and the progress seen in completing the Whitworth 2021 vision is due to the generosity of so many of you. The Campaign for Whitworth surpassed its original $100 million goal in the fall of 2017. Since then, faithful and generous supporters have sustained that momentum, and to date, more than $125.5 million has been raised to support scholarships, programs, faculty, facilities and endowment. This past year saw the highest fundraising total in university history. To date, donors have given nearly $15 million this year to support the university and its students. Thanks to all of you who give so generously!

For the 12th year in a row, the Pirates were named the best overall athletics program in the Northwest Conference. Conference titles were won by football, men's swimming and baseball. New coaches Joial Griffith (women's basketball) and David Fern (women's golf) had fantastic inaugural seasons, and once again, Whitworth claimed the most academic all-conference honors of any NWC program. Go Bucs!

All of this momentum promises a bright future for Whitworth. The university is once again expecting record enrollment for the coming year. The incoming Class of 2023 is not only among the most academically gifted in recent history, but is also the most diverse, with more than 40 percent of students coming from historically underrepresented racial and ethnic populations. Nearly 50 percent of the members of the incoming class are students of color, international students or first-generation college students. Record graduate and continuing studies enrollment will add to the exciting opportunities in the coming year as Whitworth expands its scale and scope to meet the needs of our communities and the broader world.

Please continue to keep Whitworth in your prayers, and please make Whitworth a priority in your giving. Together, we will equip graduates to honor God, follow Christ and serve humanity, making the world a better place in the process. Thanks for all you do to sustain that noble mission.

In the Whitworth spirit,

Beck A. Taylor, Ph.D. | President


I love everything about the beginning of a new academic year. For most of us, the upcoming year holds so much promise, so much opportunity. The sky is the limit. New years are about new beginnings – opportunities to bury regrets, to overcome failures, to try something new, and to find our best selves. Everybody has an "A" to start the semester.

The followers of Jesus whom we find at the beginning of the book of Acts are experiencing many of those same feelings. The resurrected Jesus has just left them, but with a commission to go and redeem and reconcile the world for his sake. And after Christ went to be with the Father in heaven, he sent his Spirit upon the disciples, enabling them to embody the Gospel. The text tells us that the disciples and other followers of Christ were overjoyed to travel the countryside and even enter the gates of the Temple in Jerusalem, performing miracles and changing lives. The followers of Jesus were selling their possessions, living in community, and caring for the needy. Luke tells us that their hearts were overflowing with gladness, goodwill, and generosity, and that people were joining the movement in healthy numbers. Just like the beginning of the academic year, there was promise, newness, anticipation, and excitement about what would come next. And just like the new students here at Whitworth who join us today, new followers of Jesus were being added to the community, and that energized everyone. The Jesus movement, just like our new academic year, was off to a great start.

In those exciting days after Pentecost, we find two of Jesus' disciples in the Temple. Perhaps Peter and John had made a habit of going there together to minister and proclaim the Good News. It was not uncommon to find beggars at the Temple gates. The Temple was like a town square. Not only was it a place to worship for the Jewish people, the Temple's outer courts were alive with conversations about the latest news. Men and women could gather and talk about the day's happenings. So beggars were wise to position themselves near the gates to collect alms from those who passed by.

That day, as Peter and John entered the Temple, they find a man there who we're told was lame from birth. From that little tidbit of information we're given, it's quite easy to assume that this man has been begging for his life for many years. He was very likely someone that people recognized because he had positioned himself there at the Beautiful Gate of the Temple for years, perhaps since childhood. People would pass him regularly, and every once in a while, someone would drop a small coin or a scrap of food in his sack.

This is a scene we are familiar with. We see it on the corner of Hawthorne Road and Division Street every day. We see it in our downtown alleyways and even on our neighborhood streets. Small transactions keep these people alive – a dollar here, and McDonald's sandwich there. Their stories are unknown to us, but occasionally we feel compelled to stop what we're doing and drop a lifeline into their cup. Some are even recognizable to us because we see them so regularly.

So as our story goes, it would have been expected that Peter and John would have entered into the same transaction so many that day had already completed – a coin or two, and that's that. Alms given, conscience cleared. But as we heard, the story takes a dramatic turn. The opportunity for a simple transaction became a life-changing transformation in this man's life.

This summer, I traveled to Bangkok, Thailand, to host an alumni event. More than 50 people joined me for a river boat cruise that evening, including an incoming student who is here today. During that trip, I visited with a man named Spain Jingkaojai. Spain and his sister grew up in Bangkok, and when they were young middle-schoolers, they lost their parents in a terrible automobile accident. They were orphaned. Lives of promise became lives of vulnerability and desperation. After being moved from one children's home to another, their path crossed with that of an American Presbyterian missionary named Bill Yoder. Bill had a small ministry in Chiang Mai, and he had taken it upon himself to regularly visit these Bangkok orphanages and to attend to the children's various needs, collecting blankets, clothing, and other necessities and delivering them to the children. It was on one of these regular, routine trips that Bill Yoder met Spain and his sister. Little did the three of them know that their meeting would also culminate in an unlikely story, and ultimately, a transformative one.

I think of you students who are here this morning. You are engaged in a great exchange here at Whitworth – a worthy transaction I would say. You and many of your families are paying for an expensive education. Tuition bills are being paid, and in exchange, you now have access to a world of knowledge, a nurturing community, opportunities to learn from world-class scholars, and the hope of earning a Whitworth degree, a degree that will no doubt open doors and catapult you to the next rung of socioeconomic security. It's your ticket to a life of independence, professional pursuits, and career aspiration. Your ticket is about to get punched. It's one of the best decisions you've made in your young lives.

Back to Peter, John and the disabled man in the Temple. As we are told in the story, the disciples aren't content with making a simple exchange with the beggar. They are not concerned with an expedient transaction. They see an opportunity to change a life. It would have been so easy for Peter and John to have dropped a coin and moved on. Rather, they chose to have an intimate encounter, and they do something radical. By the power of the Holy Spirit, we're told that Peter and John heal the lame man.

There's that old saying that if you want to feed someone for a day, give them a fish, but if you want to feed someone for a lifetime, teach them how to fish. In this case, the disciples heal this man – they teach him how to walk. It's hard to overstate how transformative this would have been in this man's life. No longer would he have to depend on others for his wellbeing. No longer would he have to endure the indignity of begging at the Temple gates. No longer would he have to hear about all of the reasons why God had cursed him and made him an outcast. In an instant, his life was transformed. Luke tells us that the man ran around the Temple, leaping and praising God. It was a miracle, and a testament to the power of Christ, and a metaphor for what Jesus wants to do in our own lives and in our communities.

As my new friend in Bangkok told me his story, his eyes welled up with tears. By the prodding of the Holy Spirit, Bill Yoder, the American missionary, decided to take Spain and his sister into his home. Days became weeks, weeks became months, and before anyone realized it, Spain and his sister had become part of the Yoder household. Lives were transformed. That hope and promise that every child deserves was restored. Years passed, and when it came time for Spain to graduate from high school, a confluence of mutual connections and relationships between Bill Yoder and other Presbyterian pastors here in the U.S. led Spain to study here at Whitworth. The transformation that began as a young child continued as Spain entered his new life in Spokane as a Whitworthian. Faculty and staff poured their lives into him, he received a great education, and he grew in his faith.

Fast forward another 25 years. Spain is now an executive in Bangkok working for a division of a global finance corporation. He loves Jesus, he loves Whitworth, and he combines his work and faith to change the lives of people in Bangkok. Spain will be here in October, and I hope some of you have the opportunity to meet him. But as I concluded my talk with Spain there in Bangkok, Spain spoke so passionately about the miracles in his life that led him here to Whitworth. He is so appreciative of the education he received. His ticket got punched – his Whitworth degree allowed him to work in high finance here in the U.S. for many years before taking charge of the impressive Thai operation he leads now.

But Spain's years at Whitworth did far more than serve as a stepping stone to a successful career. Listening to Spain, I could tell that he was grateful for so much more. Through the relationships he built with his faculty and staff mentors and with fellow students, Spain became a man of deeper faith, a man of integrity, someone who understands the world and his place in it. His Whitworth degree may have secured him his first job, but his Whitworth community shaped his life, and continues to do so. Sure, Spain learned how to evaluate a financial project, to calculate return on investment, and how to read a balance sheet – all important skills for an aspiring financier. But for Spain, his time at Whitworth was about so much more than that. Spain's life was transformed, first by Bill Yoder, and then by the Whitworth community. And like the lame man in the Temple who was healed, Spain practically leaps for joy when he tells his story, and he gives praise to God in the process.

Students, you have a choice, in my opinion. You can view your time here at Whitworth as a simple transaction – you pay tuition, we give you credits and a degree. Ticket punched. Or, you can take advantage of all that this place will offer you – experiences and relationships that will last a lifetime. In addition to your degree, this place wants to give you so much more. We want you to discover more about yourself, and more about others and the world around you. We want you to form deep relationships with one another and with the faculty and staff members who are eager to pour themselves into your lives. We want you to ask big questions about God, about faith, and about how you fit into the work God is doing in the world. We want you to become agents of love, peace, justice and change. Do we want you to earn a paycheck? Of course. Do we want you to reach for and succeed in your career aspirations? Absolutely – it's through those careers that God can and will use you for exactly what I'm talking about.

But I know I speak for the faculty members before you, and the staff members around you, when I say that we want to do more than complete a transaction here at Whitworth. We're eager to give you far more than a coin that will get you a little farther down the road. We want to help you unlock a transformative education – one that's at your fingertips, and one that can and will shape the rest of your lives.

May God bless all of you this semester. Thank you.
