I love everything about the beginning of a new academic year. For most of us, the upcoming year holds so much promise, so much opportunity. The sky is the limit. New years are about new beginnings – opportunities to bury regrets, to overcome failures, to try something new, and to find our best selves. Everybody has an "A" to start the semester.

The followers of Jesus whom we find at the beginning of the book of Acts are experiencing many of those same feelings. The resurrected Jesus has just left them, but with a commission to go and redeem and reconcile the world for his sake. And after Christ went to be with the Father in heaven, he sent his Spirit upon the disciples, enabling them to embody the Gospel. The text tells us that the disciples and other followers of Christ were overjoyed to travel the countryside and even enter the gates of the Temple in Jerusalem, performing miracles and changing lives. The followers of Jesus were selling their possessions, living in community, and caring for the needy. Luke tells us that their hearts were overflowing with gladness, goodwill, and generosity, and that people were joining the movement in healthy numbers. Just like the beginning of the academic year, there was promise, newness, anticipation, and excitement about what would come next. And just like the new students here at Whitworth who join us today, new followers of Jesus were being added to the community, and that energized everyone. The Jesus movement, just like our new academic year, was off to a great start.

In those exciting days after Pentecost, we find two of Jesus' disciples in the Temple. Perhaps Peter and John had made a habit of going there together to minister and proclaim the Good News. It was not uncommon to find beggars at the Temple gates. The Temple was like a town square. Not only was it a place to worship for the Jewish people, the Temple's outer courts were alive with conversations about the latest news. Men and women could gather and talk about the day's happenings. So beggars were wise to position themselves near the gates to collect alms from those who passed by.

That day, as Peter and John entered the Temple, they find a man there who we're told was lame from birth. From that little tidbit of information we're given, it's quite easy to assume that this man has been begging for his life for many years. He was very likely someone that people recognized because he had positioned himself there at the Beautiful Gate of the Temple for years, perhaps since childhood. People would pass him regularly, and every once in a while, someone would drop a small coin or a scrap of food in his sack.

This is a scene we are familiar with. We see it on the corner of Hawthorne Road and Division Street every day. We see it in our downtown alleyways and even on our neighborhood streets. Small transactions keep these people alive – a dollar here, and McDonald's sandwich there. Their stories are unknown to us, but occasionally we feel compelled to stop what we're doing and drop a lifeline into their cup. Some are even recognizable to us because we see them so regularly.

So as our story goes, it would have been expected that Peter and John would have entered into the same transaction so many that day had already completed – a coin or two, and that's that. Alms given, conscience cleared. But as we heard, the story takes a dramatic turn. The opportunity for a simple transaction became a life-changing transformation in this man's life.

This summer, I traveled to Bangkok, Thailand, to host an alumni event. More than 50 people joined me for a river boat cruise that evening, including an incoming student who is here today. During that trip, I visited with a man named Spain Jingkaojai. Spain and his sister grew up in Bangkok, and when they were young middle-schoolers, they lost their parents in a terrible automobile accident. They were orphaned. Lives of promise became lives of vulnerability and desperation. After being moved from one children's home to another, their path crossed with that of an American Presbyterian missionary named Bill Yoder. Bill had a small ministry in Chiang Mai, and he had taken it upon himself to regularly visit these Bangkok orphanages and to attend to the children's various needs, collecting blankets, clothing, and other necessities and delivering them to the children. It was on one of these regular, routine trips that Bill Yoder met Spain and his sister. Little did the three of them know that their meeting would also culminate in an unlikely story, and ultimately, a transformative one.

I think of you students who are here this morning. You are engaged in a great exchange here at Whitworth – a worthy transaction I would say. You and many of your families are paying for an expensive education. Tuition bills are being paid, and in exchange, you now have access to a world of knowledge, a nurturing community, opportunities to learn from world-class scholars, and the hope of earning a Whitworth degree, a degree that will no doubt open doors and catapult you to the next rung of socioeconomic security. It's your ticket to a life of independence, professional pursuits, and career aspiration. Your ticket is about to get punched. It's one of the best decisions you've made in your young lives.

Back to Peter, John and the disabled man in the Temple. As we are told in the story, the disciples aren't content with making a simple exchange with the beggar. They are not concerned with an expedient transaction. They see an opportunity to change a life. It would have been so easy for Peter and John to have dropped a coin and moved on. Rather, they chose to have an intimate encounter, and they do something radical. By the power of the Holy Spirit, we're told that Peter and John heal the lame man.

There's that old saying that if you want to feed someone for a day, give them a fish, but if you want to feed someone for a lifetime, teach them how to fish. In this case, the disciples heal this man – they teach him how to walk. It's hard to overstate how transformative this would have been in this man's life. No longer would he have to depend on others for his wellbeing. No longer would he have to endure the indignity of begging at the Temple gates. No longer would he have to hear about all of the reasons why God had cursed him and made him an outcast. In an instant, his life was transformed. Luke tells us that the man ran around the Temple, leaping and praising God. It was a miracle, and a testament to the power of Christ, and a metaphor for what Jesus wants to do in our own lives and in our communities.

As my new friend in Bangkok told me his story, his eyes welled up with tears. By the prodding of the Holy Spirit, Bill Yoder, the American missionary, decided to take Spain and his sister into his home. Days became weeks, weeks became months, and before anyone realized it, Spain and his sister had become part of the Yoder household. Lives were transformed. That hope and promise that every child deserves was restored. Years passed, and when it came time for Spain to graduate from high school, a confluence of mutual connections and relationships between Bill Yoder and other Presbyterian pastors here in the U.S. led Spain to study here at Whitworth. The transformation that began as a young child continued as Spain entered his new life in Spokane as a Whitworthian. Faculty and staff poured their lives into him, he received a great education, and he grew in his faith.

Fast forward another 25 years. Spain is now an executive in Bangkok working for a division of a global finance corporation. He loves Jesus, he loves Whitworth, and he combines his work and faith to change the lives of people in Bangkok. Spain will be here in October, and I hope some of you have the opportunity to meet him. But as I concluded my talk with Spain there in Bangkok, Spain spoke so passionately about the miracles in his life that led him here to Whitworth. He is so appreciative of the education he received. His ticket got punched – his Whitworth degree allowed him to work in high finance here in the U.S. for many years before taking charge of the impressive Thai operation he leads now.

But Spain's years at Whitworth did far more than serve as a stepping stone to a successful career. Listening to Spain, I could tell that he was grateful for so much more. Through the relationships he built with his faculty and staff mentors and with fellow students, Spain became a man of deeper faith, a man of integrity, someone who understands the world and his place in it. His Whitworth degree may have secured him his first job, but his Whitworth community shaped his life, and continues to do so. Sure, Spain learned how to evaluate a financial project, to calculate return on investment, and how to read a balance sheet – all important skills for an aspiring financier. But for Spain, his time at Whitworth was about so much more than that. Spain's life was transformed, first by Bill Yoder, and then by the Whitworth community. And like the lame man in the Temple who was healed, Spain practically leaps for joy when he tells his story, and he gives praise to God in the process.

Students, you have a choice, in my opinion. You can view your time here at Whitworth as a simple transaction – you pay tuition, we give you credits and a degree. Ticket punched. Or, you can take advantage of all that this place will offer you – experiences and relationships that will last a lifetime. In addition to your degree, this place wants to give you so much more. We want you to discover more about yourself, and more about others and the world around you. We want you to form deep relationships with one another and with the faculty and staff members who are eager to pour themselves into your lives. We want you to ask big questions about God, about faith, and about how you fit into the work God is doing in the world. We want you to become agents of love, peace, justice and change. Do we want you to earn a paycheck? Of course. Do we want you to reach for and succeed in your career aspirations? Absolutely – it's through those careers that God can and will use you for exactly what I'm talking about.

But I know I speak for the faculty members before you, and the staff members around you, when I say that we want to do more than complete a transaction here at Whitworth. We're eager to give you far more than a coin that will get you a little farther down the road. We want to help you unlock a transformative education – one that's at your fingertips, and one that can and will shape the rest of your lives.

May God bless all of you this semester. Thank you.
